---
title: Configure the assistant
description: Configure the assistant to help sellers track their daily actions and communications through actionable insight cards.
ms.date: 03/29/2024
ms.topic: how-to
author: udaykirang
ms.author: udag
ms.reviewer: udag
ms.custom:
  - bap-template
  - ai-gen-docs-bap
  - ai-gen-desc
  - ai-seo-date:03/19/2024
---

# Configure the assistant

Configure the assistant to help sellers track their daily actions and communications through a collection of actionable insight cards.

## Configure the standard and premium assistant

The assistant in Dynamics 365 Sales helps sellers track their daily actions and communications through a collection of actionable insight cards.  
The assistant is available in two forms:  

- **Assistant (standard)**: This feature is included with Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise. The assistant comes with a set of out-of-the-box standard cards. As an administrator, you can configure which insight cards to present to users to help them stay on top of their day. Some insight cards are enabled by default; you can enable, disable, or customize the standard cards. To configure the standard assistant, see [Standard assistant](#standard-assistant).

- **Assistant (premium)**: The premium assistant is available in Sales with the Dynamics 365 Sales Premium license. With premium assistant capabilities, you can use Power Automate directly from the assistant studio to create custom insight cards, tailored to the specific needs of your team. To configure the premium assistant, see [Premium assistant](#premium-assistant).

## Standard assistant

### Prerequisites

Assign user privileges to give access to the assistant features. The privileges required to access Sales Premium features are automatically enabled for all out-of-the-box security roles, but they're initially disabled for all custom roles. If you enable any Sales Premium features, you must check the settings listed in the following table to help ensure that your users can access those features, and to help ensure that other features don't stop working because of privilege cascades related to these features.

|Privilege| Security role tab |Description and requirements|
|---------|-------------------|----------------------------|
|**Action card**| **Core records**  |Gives the ability to view and interact with insight cards that are generated by the assistant. <br> **Warning:** If the assistant is enabled, all users *must* have a role with read access for this privilege. Because of cascading, users without this privilege lose access to many Dynamics 365 Sales features when the assistant is enabled.|
| **Action card user settings** | **Core records**  | Gives the ability to view and change user preferences for insight cards that are generated by the assistant. **Warning:** If the assistant is enabled, all users *must* have a role with read access for this privilege. Because of cascading, users without this privilege lose access to many Dynamics 365 Sales features when the assistant is enabled. |

More information: [Security roles and privileges](/dynamics365/customer-engagement/admin/security-roles-privileges)

### Configure and manage standard insight cards

1. On the **Sales insights settings** site map, under **Assistant studio**, select **Insight cards**.

1. Do the following actions as described according to your requirements:  

    - **To turn on (enable) the insight cards**, select the cards that are shaded, and then select **Turn on cards**.  
        In this example, the cards **Recent Meetings (Exchange)** and **Email Opened** are selected.  
        :::image type="content" source="media/si-admin-assistant-turn-on-cards.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the cards selected to turn on":::  
        More information: [Turn on or off the insight cards](turn-on-off-insight-cards.md)

    - **To turn off (disable) the insight cards**, select the cards that are turned on, and then select **Turn off cards**.  
        In this example, the cards **SuggestedContacts** and **Upcoming Flight** are selected.  
        :::image type="content" source="media/si-admin-assistant-turn-off-cards.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the cards selected to turn off":::

    - **To see a preview of a card**, get more details about it&mdash;such as a description and the time it was last modified&mdash;or turn it on or off, select the card.  
        :::image type="content" source="media/si-admin-assistant-view-card-details.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the details of a card":::

    Sellers can also set their own personal preferences for their insight cards. They can't add cards that you disable here, but they can disable cards that you enabled if they don't find them useful. They can also change the configuration settings for those cards that have them, though your settings are the defaults. More information: [Turn on or off the insight cards](turn-on-off-insight-cards.md)

## Premium assistant

The premium assistant that's part of the Sales Premium license offers advanced capabilities, including:

- [Creating custom insight cards](create-insight-cards-flow.md).
- [Prioritizing individual cards](edit-insight-cards.md#set-priority-for-a-card).
- [Assigning cards to users by roles](edit-insight-cards.md#assign-roles-to-or-remove-roles-from-a-card).
- [Turn on or off insights cards](edit-insight-cards.md#turn-cards-on-or-off).
- [Edit flow of an insight card](edit-insight-cards.md#edit-flow-of-a-card).
- [View card usage metrics](edit-insight-cards.md#view-card-usage-metrics).

> [!NOTE]
> You can create custom cards not only from the assistant studio but also directly by using the solution. More information: [Create custom cards in the assistant](extend-relationship-assistant-card.md)

1. Verify that you have [enabled and configured premium Sales Premium features](intro-admin-guide-sales-insights.md#enable-and-configure-premium-sales-insights-features)

1. Go to **Change area** in the lower-left corner of the page, and select **Sales Insights settings**.

1. On the site map under **Assistant studio**, select **Home**.

1. On the **Home** tab (**Assistant Studio** page), you can perform actions as described in the following table.

    :::image type="content" source="media/si-admin-assistant-full-studio-home-page.svg" alt-text="Screenshot showing the home page of assistant studio":::

    | Number | Description |
    |--------|---------|
    | **1** | Create cards that are customized for your organization by using Power Automate. More information: [Creating custom insight cards](create-insight-cards-flow.md) |
    | **2** | Quickly view cards by using tabs to view cards that are most popular, recently used, high in priority, and created by your organization. Additionally, you can select the cards and turn on or off as required. More information: [Turn cards on or off](edit-insight-cards.md#turn-cards-on-or-off) |
    | **3** | Table with card details displays the cards that are available in your organization. More information: [Edit insight cards](edit-insight-cards.md) |
    | **4** | Search for cards that you want to view or manage. Select a security role to filter the displayed cards. More information: [Turn cards on or off for a security role](edit-insight-cards.md#turn-cards-on-or-off-for-a-security-role)   |

## Disable teasers

The updates in Sales Insights are displayed to sellers as teasers in the assistant. By default, teasers are enabled in your organization. However, you can disable them if you don’t want to display the teasers. To disable, follow these steps:

1. Sign in to the Dynamics 365 Sales Hub app, and go to **Change area** > **Sales Insights settings**.

1. On the site map, select **Overview**.

1. In the **Teasers** section, turn off the toggle.

    :::image type="content" source="media/disable-teasers.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing disabling of teasers":::

Teasers are disabled in your organization.

[!INCLUDE[cant-find-option](../includes/cant-find-option.md)]

## Related information

[Introduction to administer Sales Insights](intro-admin-guide-sales-insights.md)  
[Create insight cards](create-insight-cards-flow.md)  
[Edit insight cards](edit-insight-cards.md)  
[Optimize ranking of insight cards](optimize-ranking-insight-cards.md)  
[Create custom cards in Assistant](extend-relationship-assistant-card.md)  
[Assistant FAQs](faq-assistant.md)  
[Sales Insights privacy notice](privacy-notice.md)  



[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
