---
title: Understanding data storage and flow in conversation intelligence
description: 
author: lavanyakr
ms.author: lavanyakr01
ms.reviewer: shujoshi
ms.topic: conceptual 
ms.collection: 
ms.date: 01/11/2024
ms.custom: bap-template
---

# Understanding data storage and flow in conversation intelligence 

This article describes the data structure of conversation intelligence outputs, where they are saved, and how this data can be controlled. The following diagram depicts the flow of events starting from the time a call comes in to the time the data is saved, processed, analyzed, and displayed in the call summary page.

:::image type="content" source="media/conversation-intelligence-data-flow.svg" alt-text="Diagram depicting the flow of events starting from the time a call comes in to the time the data is saved, processed, analyzed, and displayed in the call summary page." lightbox="media/conversation-intelligence-data-flow.svg":::

Conversation intelligence data includes insights which are generated from conversations’ transcripts by advanced AI models. These insights include automatic suggestions, conversation style analysis, follow-up tracking, and more.  

The insights generated by the conversation intelligence models are saved in Dataverse. This provides organizations with benefits such as total flexibility, high security and compliance, and availability of custom reporting built on top of the data. The audio recording file of a call, can be saved in either Dataverse, or the organization’s own Azure blob storage. 

Once a recorded phone call is completed, the processing of the transcript begins, and after few seconds the insights are saved in various Dataverse entities as explained in this article. By default, there is no expiry date for this data, and administrators can set a retention policy for the various entities or manually delete parts or all of the data when needed.   

The data from the various entities is reflected in the call’s summary page. When deleting data from Dataverse, the page will display partial data, as long as the transcription or the recording files are available. If both the recording and the transcript files are deleted, the meeting summary page will no longer be displayed for that conversation.   


## Data schema  

Deleting a node in the tree will cascade-delete all its sub-nodes.  

You can delete any entity type from the conversation’s tree without impacting the call summary user interface. As long as the transcript or recording were not deleted, the user interface of the call summary will still be accessible, even if the data in Dataverse is partial.  

## Data structure

:::image type="content" source="media/conversation-intelligence-data-structure-in-dataverse.svg" alt-text="dv" lightbox="media/conversation-intelligence-data-structure-in-dataverse.svg":::

### Entity description  

| Entity Name | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| `msdyn_SCIConversation` | Contains data required to correlate between the conversation intelligence data, the phone call activity, and the audio recording files. |
| `Recording` | Contains a link to the recording file in the Azure blob storage, or stores the recording itself, according to the storage settings. |
| `Transcript` | Contains the transcript data. |
| `msdyn_conversationAggregatedInsights` | Contains Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) such as longest monologue, switch count throughout the conversation, meeting duration, and more. It also contains IDs to correlate the lower level insights. |
| `msdyn_conversationSentiment` | Contains sentiment data for the conversation such as overall percent of positive, negative, and neutral customer sentiments during the conversation. |
| `msdyn_conversationSubject` | Contains the automatic categorization of segments of the conversation such as introduction, negotiation, closure, and more. |
| `msdyn_conversationParticipantInsights` | Each participant in a conversation, whether a seller or a customer, has their own instance of the participant entity. The entity contains identifiers for the participant, as well as personal KPIs such as average talking speed, own longest monologue, average pause before speaking, talk to listen ratio, and switch count. This entity also contains the following sub-entities: |
| `msdyn_conversationSignal` | Contains all the tracked keywords such as brands, times, competitors, and names which were mentioned by participants during the conversation. |
| `msdyn_conversationParticipantSentiment` | Contains the sentiment per each fragment of the participant’s speech. |
| `msdyn_conversationActionItem` | Contains suggested action items for the participant. |
| `msdyn_conversationSummarySuggestion` | Contains suggestions for the call summary which involves the participant or were a result of the participant’s communication. |
| `msdyn_conversationQuestion` | Contains questions asked by the participant. |

### Size of a conversation in Dataverse

The overall size of entities related to a phone-call activity in Dataverse varies and has direct correlation to the duration of the activity, the number of participants, and the configuration of the data saved.  

The following table provides an estimation of the total size (table storage in MB) required for entities created during a conversation, as a function of the conversation’s duration and number of participants:  

| Duration (minutes) | Size in MB (2 participants) |
|--------------------|----------------------------|
| 10                 | 0.15                       |
| 20                 | 0.30                       |
| 30                 | 0.45                       |
| 40                 | 0.60                       |
| 50                 | 0.75                       |
| 60                 | 0.90                       |
| 70                 | 1.05                       |
| 80                 | 1.20                       |
| 90                 | 1.35                       |
  
> [!NOTE]
> Actual size may vary depending on the actual number of entities created during the conversation. 
  

## Data creation and access  

Once a conversation is completed, the various entities are created in Dataverse by the conversation intelligence app-user and will be linked to the relevant phone call activity. After their creation, the entities are being assigned to the conversation’s owner.   


## Access permissions 

By default, out-of-the-box security roles have permission to access all the new Dataverse entities which hold conversation intelligence data. For custom security roles, admins will need to grant permission to access these entities.   

> [!NOTE]
> Read permission is sufficient for users who are owners of phone calls. Edit/write permissions are required for performing editing operations through the summary page, such as tagging a call, leaving a comment on the transcript etc.  
  

## Data deletion  

For information about deleting insights from Dataverse and configuring a retention policy in Dataverse, see [Manage data retention policies in Microsoft Dataverse](/power-apps/maker/data-platform/data-retention-manage).