---
title: "Use lead and opportunity scoring with the Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise license | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Learn how to use lead and opportunity scoring with the Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise license."
ms.date: 10/11/2022
ms.topic: article
author: sbmjais
ms.author: shjais
manager: shujoshi
---

# Lead and opportunity scoring

Harness the power of AI to get insights into which deals are most likely to close so your team can prioritize better.

## License and role requirements
| Requirement type | You must have |
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium or Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise <br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | System Administrator <br>  More information: [Predefined security roles for Sales](security-roles-for-sales.md)|

## Overview

Predictive lead scoring allows you to prioritize your leads based on scores and achieve higher lead qualification rates.
It provides a scoring model to generate scores for leads that are available for you in your pipeline. More information: [Prioritize leads through scores](work-predictive-lead-scoring.md)

Predictive opportunity scoring allows you to prioritize your opportunities based on scores and achieve higher opportunity win, close, or convert rates. It provides a scoring model to generate scores for opportunities in your pipeline. More information: [Prioritize opportunities through scores](work-predictive-opportunity-scoring.md)

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/videoplayer/embed/RWQjwl]

## Licensing options

When you set up lead and opportunity scoring with the Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise license, you get 1,500 scored records per month. If you need to score more than 1,500 records per month, upgrade to Dynamics 365 Sales Premium.

## Set up lead and opportunity scoring

1. On the **Get started with digital sales** page, under **Lead and opportunity scoring**, select **Quick setup**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/ds-get-started.png" alt-text="Get started page for setting up digital sales.":::

    The **Lead and opportunity scoring quick setup** panel is displayed.

    :::image type="content" source="media/ds-scoring-setup.png" alt-text="Lead and opportunity scoring quick setup panel.":::

2. To enable predictive lead scoring, select **Create and publish** in the **Predictive lead scores** section.

    > [!NOTE]
    > This feature requires a minimum of 40 qualified leads and 40 disqualified leads, all of which have been created in the past two years.

    The application starts generating a model, and a notification for training the model is displayed. The model is generated by automatically selecting the attributes that can define the probability of a lead qualification or disqualification. After the model is generated, it's published automatically.

3. To enable predictive opportunity scoring, select **Create and publish** in the **Predictive opportunity scores** section.

    > [!NOTE]
    > This feature requires a minimum of 40 won opportunities and 40 lost opportunities, all of which have been created in the past two years.

    The application starts generating a model, and a notification for training the model is displayed. The model is generated by automatically selecting the attributes that can define the probability of an opportunity being closed as won or lost. After the model is generated, it's published automatically.

After the models are trained and published, the **Lead score** and **Opportunity score** widgets are added to the **Sales Insights** form of Lead and Opportunity records, respectively.

> [!NOTE]
> If you want to explore predictive scoring with sample data, you can publish sales accelerator with sample data.

## Advanced settings

You may want to modify the lead and opportunity scoring configurations, for example, to ensure the model is trained on fields that are most relevant to your organization or to add a separate model for a different line of business. To do so, go to the advanced configurations for lead and opportunity scoring settings, by selecting **Go to advanced lead score settings** and **Go to advanced opportunity score settings** in their respective sections. For information about advanced configurations, go to [Configure predictive lead scoring](configure-predictive-lead-scoring.md) and [Configure predictive opportunity scoring](configure-predictive-opportunity-scoring.md).

:::image type="content" source="media/ds-scoring-advanced-setup.png" alt-text="Advanced settings link in quick setup panel for Lead and opportunity scoring.":::

## Monitor usage

As an administrator, you can monitor the number of records that have been scored over a period of seven months. This includes both lead and opportunity scoring.

If you're using predictive scoring with your Sales Enterprise license, you get 1,500 scored records per month. A warning symbol is displayed whenever the usage exceeds the monthly limit. Hover over the symbol to see the message. In such a case, you must upgrade to the Sales Premium license to enjoy full benefits with no monthly limit.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The data in the usage panel is refreshed every 24 hours.

**To monitor the usage of predictive scoring**

- On the **Get started with digital sales** page, under **Lead and opportunity scoring**, select **Monitor usage**.

  :::image type="content" source="media/ds-scoring-monitor-usage.png" alt-text="Monitor usage for predictive scoring.":::

  The **Predictive scoring usage panel** is displayed with the following information:

  - **Monthly average**: Displays the average number of records scored over the last six full months of usage.

  - **Scored this month**: Displays the total number of records scored so far in the current month. If the monthly limit is exceeded in a month (for Sales Enterprise license users), a warning symbol is displayed.

  - **Usage over time**: Displays the monthly usage of predictive scoring for the last six months in a graphical format. If the monthly limit is exceeded in a month (for Sales Enterprise license users), a warning symbol is displayed.

    The monthly limit is shown with a blue line in the graph. When the limit is exceeded in a month, the number of records in excess of 1,500 are shown in red.

    By default, the usage of both lead and opportunity (if both are enabled) is displayed in the graph. To display the usage only for leads or only for opportunities, select **All** and then select the filter you want.

    :::image type="content" source="media/ds-scoring-usage-panel.png" alt-text="Predictive scoring usage panel.":::

## Turn off lead and opportunity scoring

If you want to turn off lead and opportunity scoring, you can do it from their respective advanced settings.

**To turn off lead scoring**

1. Select **Go to advanced lead score settings**.

2. On the **Predictive lead scoring** page, select **Delete model**.

3. In the confirmation dialog, select **Delete**.

**To turn off opportunity scoring**

1. Select **Go to advanced opportunity score settings**.

2. On the **Predictive opportunity scoring** page, select **Delete model**.

3. In the confirmation dialog, select **Delete**.

### Add lead and opportunity scoring widgets to a custom form

By default, the lead and opportunity scoring widgets are available only in the out-of-the-box **Sales Insights** form. If you're using a form other than the **Sales Insights** form (for example, customized form) for leads and opportunities, you can add the scoring widgets to your custom forms. For information about adding scoring widgets to a custom form, go to [Add the lead scoring widget to a form](pls-add-widget.md) and [Add the opportunity scoring widget to a form](pos-add-widget.md).

### See also

[Sales accelerator](digital-selling-sales-accelerator.md)   
[Microsoft Teams collaboration](digital-selling-teams-collab.md)     
[Microsoft Teams calls with conversation intelligence](digital-selling-microsoft-teams-calls.md)     
