---
title: Lead management FAQs
description: Get answers to frequently asked questions about Lead management.
ms.date: 03/29/2023
ms.topic: troubleshooting
author: udaykirang
ms.author: udag
ms.owner: shujoshi
ms.custom:
  - bap-template
  - ai-gen-docs-bap
  - ai-gen-desc
  - ai-seo-date:03/11/2024
---

# Lead management FAQs

This article answers frequently asked questions about Lead management in Dynamics 365 Sales, Sales premium, and Sales professional.

## What's the difference between the duplicate detection capability in Power Platform and Dynamics 365 Sales?

Power Platform detects duplicates by comparing the matchcode that is created for each record. For more information, go to [Detect duplicate data so you can fix or remove it](/power-platform/admin/detect-duplicate-data).

Dynamics 365 Sales detects duplicates with an AI model that compares leads using fuzzy logic and the matchcode that is generated for each lead.

The following table shows an example of the two methods for detecting duplicates.

| Rule type | Applied for |
|-----------|------------|
| Fuzzy logic | - Similar lead name and company name<br>- Similar lead name and the same email domain |
| Matchcode | - Email address<br>- Phone number |

For more information, go to [Enable duplicate lead detection](enable-duplicate-lead-detection.md).

## What do I need in order to use lead scoring?​

Install [!INCLUDE[pn_dynamics_sales_insights](../includes/pn-dynamics-sales-insights.md)] and use the standard lead entity or the standard opportunity entity.​ A minimum number of leads or opportunities is required to build a scoring model:

To build a lead scoring model, you need to have a minimum of 40 qualified and 40 disqualified leads.  
To build an opportunity scoring model, you need to have a minimum of 40 won and 40 lost opportunities.  
The leads and opportunities must have been created on or after January 1, in the previous year.

## How frequently are the predictive lead scores updated?

For new leads, the scoring happens in near real-time. The score will be displayed within five minutes of saving a new lead. For updated leads, the scores are refreshed after every 24 hours.

## Why aren't my leads scored in real-time?

Real-time scoring is supported only for new leads. If you don't see the score even after 15 minutes of saving or importing the new lead, contact your administrator. Your administrator can verify whether the model that's scoring the new lead was created or edited, and published after the real-time scoring feature was rolled out. For more information, see [Real-time scoring](work-predictive-lead-scoring.md#real-time-scoring). 

## Can I customize the model?

Yes, you are able to modify which attributes are selected to train the model. That said, the out-of-the-box model automatically selects the attributes it determines are most relevant for your business.

## Can I create multiple models for leads?​

Yes, you can add and publish multiple models that are specific to each line of business in your organization.

## What is the difference between score and grade?​

The score is generated by the machine learning model. <br>
The grade is just grouping scores in four buckets that the admin can configure.

