---
title: Configure email settings for the Sales Qualification Agent
description: "Learn how to configure email settings for the Sales Qualification Agent to personalize outreach, ensure compliance, and validate email addresses effectively."
ms.date: 04/03/2026
ms.update-cycle: 180-days
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: dynamics-365-sales
ms.custom: bap-template
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
ms.reviewer: lavanyakr
search.app: salescopilot-docs
ms.collection: bap-ai-copilot
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---

# Configure email settings for the Sales Qualification Agent

By default, the outreach email would include:

- A concise subject line with the core value proposition
- A personalized greeting
- An introduction that demonstrates familiarity with the lead's company by referencing their recent company initiative or public activity. 
- A body section that establishes credibility by detailing how the seller's company can provide value related to the lead's specific needs while being tailored to the organization's size and requirements. This section might also include a brief social proof if positive outcomes are available
- A call-to-action that requests a meeting or offer a demo to discuss further.

You can further personalize the outreach emails to keep the lead engaged and specify the email field that the agent should use to validate email addresses.  

## Configure email instructions

Configure email instructions to help the agent draft compliant, personalized outreach emails that resonate with leads. These settings ensure emails align with your organization's compliance requirements and are tailored to meet your business needs.

1. [Open the Sales Qualification Agent settings](open-sales-qualification-agent-settings.md) page.  

1. Open the **Email instructions** section.

1. Under **Outreach emails**, specify whether you want the agent to generate emails from scratch or use an existing email template:
    - **AI-personalization**: Select this option to either use the default prompt for personalized outreach emails or to define your own custom outreach scenario. The agent uses generative AI to create personalized email content based on the instructions. Learn more in the [Personalize outreach emails generated by the Sales Qualification Agent (preview)](sales-qualification-agent-email-personalization.md) article.
 
    - **Email template**: Select this option to have the agent use a predefined email template for outreach so that all emails follow a consistent format. Select **Add template** to pick an email template that's most relevant for your outreach. The list displays all email templates for the Lead table. If you'd like to modify a template or create a new one, refer to [Create templates for email](/power-platform/admin/create-templates-email?tabs=new). 
      > [!NOTE]
      >- Remove any signature from the email template to avoid duplicate signatures in the outreach email. The agent automatically appends the sender's email signature to the outreach email.
      >- When you select fixed template, the agent doesn't use generative AI or the configured knowledge sources to draft the email content. Hence, no Copilot credits are consumed for outreach emails generated using fixed templates.

1. (Research and engage mode only) Turn on **Compliance** and select the compliance profile, purpose, and topic that the agent should use to ensure that the email adheres to your organization's compliance requirements. Learn more about settings up compliance profiles in [Stay compliant with privacy regulations](consent-management-overview.md).

## Configure email validation settings

By default, the agent uses the Email (`emailaddress1`) field in the Lead table to validate email addresses. If you're a using a different field to capture email addresses, you can select that field in the **Email address validation** section. The drop-down lists all the email fields (including custom fields) in the Lead table.  

## Next step

[Configure hand-off criteria](configure-sales-qualification-agent-handoff-criteria.md)

## Related information

[Configure Sales Qualification Agent settings](configure-sales-qualification-agent.md)