---
title: Use Copilot in Dynamics 365 Sales
description: Learn about how to use copilot capabilities to get a quick summary of your records, catch up on updates, prepare for meetings, and so on.
ms.date: 10/05/2023
ms.topic: how-to
ms.service: dynamics-365-sales
content_well_notification:
-	AI-contribution
ms.custom:
 - ai-gen-docs-bap
 - bap-template
author: lavanyakr01
ms.author: lavanyakr
ms.reviewer: shujoshi
search.app: salescopilot-docs 
---

# Use Copilot in Dynamics 365 Sales

Copilot is an AI assistant that helps you be more productive and efficient in your daily work. Copilot can summarize records, help you catch up on updates, prepare for meetings, and so on.

## License and role requirements

| Requirement type | You must have |  
|-----------------------|---------|
| **License** | Dynamics 365 Sales Premium or Dynamics 365 Sales Enterprise <br>More information: [Dynamics 365 Sales pricing](https://dynamics.microsoft.com/sales/pricing/) |
| **Security roles** | Any primary sales role, such as salesperson or sales manager<br>  More information: [Primary sales roles](security-roles-for-sales.md#primary-sales-roles)|

## Prerequisites

To use Copilot, your administrator must have [enabled and set it up](enable-setup-copilot.md).  

## Launch Copilot

In your sales app, select the Copilot icon (:::image type="icon" source="media/copilot-icon.png" border="false":::) in the right most bar.

## Use Copilot chat

In the Copilot pane, select the sparkle icon (:::image type="icon" source="media/sparkle-icon.png" border="false":::) or place the cursor in the chat area to get the list of suggested requests or prompts. 
:::image type="content" source="media/sales-copilot-pane.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Copilot pane along with the list of suggested requests":::

### Summarize an opportunity or a lead

Use the `Summarize opportunity` or `Summarize lead` prompt to get a quick summary of an opportunity or lead. The summary is generated from the fields in the default opportunity or lead view. Start typing the opportunity or lead name after the @ symbol. Copilot will suggest the records that match your search. Select the record that you want to get a summary of.  

The following screenshot is an example of an opportunity summary generated by Copilot:

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-opportunity-summary.png" alt-text="opportunity summary":::

**Would you like to see a different set of fields summarized?**

- You can get the summary generated from the fields that matter to you the most. For example, let's say that estimated revenue, close date, contact, BPF stage, and proposed solution are the first few things that you look for in an opportunity. Work with your administrator to [configure these fields for summarization](configure-sales-copilot.md#configure-record-summary-and-catch-up-fields). 

- Now, when you ask copilot to summarize an opportunity, you'll get a summary of the opportunity record that includes configured fields. 
- These fields are configurable at the organization level. Ensure that your entire sales team agrees on the **top seven** fields that are most relevant for your business.

#### Lead enrichment with Copilot

Copilot enriches your leads with data from Dynamics 365 Sales, LinkedIn and Bing. 

- Possible contacts for a lead, based on the lead name, phone number, email, company name.

- Latest news updates on the account, curated from Bing.  
- Suggested profiles of the contact from LinkedIn, if you have the LinkedIn Sales Navigator license.  

After you select a suggested contact, Copilot generates a summary of fields that can be updated in the lead based on information from the selected contact and the account associated with it. For example, let's say you selected Alex Baker from Trey Research as your contact, Copilot will suggest the fields in the lead form that can be updated with details from Alex and Trey Research's records. 
<br>
:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-lead-enrichment.png" alt-text="Lead enrichment card":::

### Catch up with an opportunity or lead

Use the `Catchup with opportunity` or `Catchup with lead` prompt to catch up on the updates to your opportunity or lead records since the last seven days or the last login. The catch up information is generated from the audit history. If you don't see any catch up information, ensure that your administrator has [turned on audit and granted you access](enable-setup-copilot.md#grant-audit-access-to-users).

**Would you like to define the fields that you want to catch up on?** 

- By default, Copilot summarizes the last 10 updates to the record from the audit history. However, you can work with your administrator to [configure specific fields for catch up](configure-sales-copilot.md#configure-record-summary-and-catch-up-fields) so that you stay updated on changes to fields that matter to you the most. 

- These fields are configurable at the organization level. Ensure that your entire sales team agrees on the **top 10** fields that are most relevant for your business.

### Prepare for upcoming meetings

Use the `Prepare for upcoming meetings` prompt to get a list of meetings in the next 24 hours on your calendar. After you select the meeting that you'd like to prepare for, Copilot generates a summary based on the latest notes (recorded in the last 3 months) and the most recent email thread associated with the timeline of the related record.  

### Show latest news for an account

Use the `Show latest news for account` prompt to get the latest news about an account, curated from Bing. Copilot lists articles featuring or mentioning the account. These news updates can be great conversation starters and help you understand the current dynamics in your customers' organization. Ensure to read through the news article thoroughly to confirm that it's from an authentic source and it's indeed about the customer.

### Compose and send email messages

Use Copilot to get content suggestion while you're composing or replying to an email. Copilot generates the draft based on your input, recent emails, and related information. You can select from predefined response categories or input your own text, and the AI generates the suggested content. You can use it as-is or modify it as per your requirements. For more information, see [Compose and send email messages using Copilot (preview)](compose-send-email-copilot.md).

### Show emails that are not replied

Copilot serves a reminder to ensure that emails that you forget to reply are not missed. When you open the **Chat** tab, the **Show my unanswered email** option is displayed. Select this option to access the list of emails that remain unreplied. To be included in the list, the emails must meet the following criteria:  

- Emails that have been pending for past three to seven days from the current day. However, any email that surpasses the seven-day mark will no longer be displayed in the list.
- Email should contain a buying intent, a question, a query, or an action item.  
- Email should have the **Regarding** field as a lead or an opportunity.

The following card is an example of the list of emails that are not replied:  

:::image type="content" source="media/copilot-email-reminder.png" alt-text="List of emails that are not replied":::

## See also

[Copilot overview](copilot-overview.md)  
[Configure Copilot in Dynamics 365 Sales](configure-sales-copilot.md)  
