---
title: Configure AI topic clustering for cases
description: This article provides instructions to configure AI topic clustering for cases in the Customer Service Hub and Customer Service workspace.
ms.date: 02/06/2025
ms.topic: article
author: lalexms
ms.author: laalexan
ms.reviewer: laalexan
ms.collection: bap-ai-copilot
feedback_product_url: https //experience.dynamics.com/ideas/categories/list/?category=a7f4a807-de3b-eb11-a813-000d3a579c38&forum=b68e50a6-88d9-e811-a96b-000d3a1be7ad
---

# Configure AI topic clustering for cases

[!INCLUDE[pva-rebrand](../../includes/cc-pva-rebrand.md)]

[!INCLUDE[cc-rebrand-bot-agent](../../includes/cc-rebrand-bot-agent.md)]


Customer Service Insights uses AI to provide insights into your customer service data by grouping semantically related cases and generating a topic. New cases that match the generated topic are automatically added to the topic group. This action helps you identify areas of improvement that affect system performance.

The AI-driven technology enbales informed decision-making about how to improve resolution rates, reduce wait times, and decrease customer service costs. You can use case resolution insights, backlog trends, and historical comparisons to evaluate customer service representative (service representative or representative) performance and business impact, and address inefficiencies in your system.

## Enable topic clustering for cases

Topic clustering is enabled by default when you enable historical analytics. Learn how to enable historical analytics in [Configure Customer Service historical analytics](configure-cs-historical-analytics-csh.md).

## Summary and Model run summary views

:::image type="content" source="../media/summary-model-run.png" alt-text="Summary and Model run":::

The Summary and Model run summary views provide key information about how the topic model operates.

| View | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| Status | Whether the feature is on.|
| Data attributes used | Which text field from the Case entity is used for topic generation. |
| Topics generated | The total number of topics generated by the model. |
| Cases associated to a topic | The percentage of cases that were considered for topic generation and classified to a topic.|
| Last successful run | Timestamp of the last time new cases were processed. |
| Run frequency | The cadence in which new cases are processed and tagged with topics. |

## Data mapping

  Data mapping enables you to choose the text field that the service representatives in your organization are most likely to use to describe the reason why a customer reached out to support. By default, the Case Title attribute is used. The other available attributes are Serial Number, Description, and Case Title.

:::image type="content" source="../media/data-mapping-cs.png" alt-text="Data Mapping":::

### Improve data quality by cleaning support case data

:::image type="content" source="../media/clean-support-case-data-cs.png" alt-text="Clean support case data to improve data quality":::
  

The AI Insights charts that appear on the Customer Service Insights dashboards are generated by applying language understanding technology to the titles of support cases. However, the results can be misleading if the titles include extraneous information such as product name, case status, or ticket number tags. You can improve the quality of the results that appear on AI Insights charts by specifying Data Cleaning settings to disregard tags in titles when they're grouped into topics, and specific phrases that must be ignored. When you choose to apply both options, sections are ignored first, followed by phrases.

### Enable topic automation for Copilot Studio

AI discovered topics in Customer Service historical analytics are often prime candidates for automation in Copilot agents. If Copilot Studio is available in the region that your Customer Service organization is in, you can enable the feature.

1. In Customer Service admin center, go to **Insights** > **Topics clustering for cases** > **Manage**.
1. In the **Topic automation** section of the **Topic clustering for case** page, enable the toggle.


> [!NOTE]
> Topic automation to Copilot agent is currently not supported in Government Community Cloud.


## Language availability for topics

The topics capability in the Customer Service historical analytics reports comes with a natural language understanding model that can understand the text semantics and intent in the following languages: 

- English 
- French 
- German 
- Italian 
- Japanese 
- Portuguese 
- Simplified Chinese 
- Spanish 

> [!NOTE]
> While topic discovery isn't prevented and still possible in languages that aren't listed, there may be a difference in experience for users who use topics in unsupported languages.


### Related information

[Introduction to Customer Service analytics and insights](../implement/introduction-customer-service-analytics.md)  
[Dashboard overview](../use/customer-service-analytics-insights-csh.md)  
[Topics Dashboard](../use/case-topics-dashboard-cs.md)  


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../includes/footer-banner.md)]
