---
title: Enable features in Copilot pane
description: Learn how to enable features that appear in the Copilot help pane to increase agent productivity.
author: gandhamm
ms.author: mgandham
ms.reviewer: neeranelli
ms.topic: how-to 
ms.collection: bap-ai-copilot
ms.date: 04/29/2024
ms.custom: bap-template 
---

# Enable Copilot for questions and emails

The Copilot allows agents to use Copilot features such as respond to questions and compose an email.

## Prerequisites

- You have the System Administrator role.
- If you aren't in the North America region and you want to use the web search powered by Bing feature, you must enable data movement across regions and Bing search in Power Platform admin center. See [Enable data movement across regions](/power-platform/admin/geographical-availability-copilot).

   :::image type="content" source="../media/ppac-gen-ai-features.png" alt-text="Power Platform Admin center bing chat.":::

## Enable Copilot assist features

Perform the following steps to enable the Copilot features in Contact Center admin center:
1. Use one of the following navigation options:
      - Select **Manage** in **Agent Experience** > **Productivity** > **Copilot for questions and emails**.
      - Select **Manage** in **Operations** > **Insights** > **Copilot for questions and emails**
1. The **Copilot for questions and emails** page appears. You can select the Copilot features you'd like to enable for agents on this page.
  - **Ask a question**: The **Ask a question** tab appears when agents sign in to the application. Agents can ask questions conversationally, and Copilot answers the questions based on the internal knowledge base sources.
  - **Help pane - write an email**: The **Write an email** tab appears when agents sign in to the application. Agents can use Copilot to make emails clearer, concise, and compelling. 
## Configure knowledge sources

You can configure the knowledge base for Copilot to generate responses.

### Prerequisites

Make sure that you have [knowledge management](set-up-knowledge-management-embedded-knowledge-search.md#setup-overview) configured in your environment and your knowledge article parameters are as follows:
   - Updated with the latest version
   - The state is set to Published

> [!NOTE]
 > Copilot uses the content attribute only in the knowledge article table to generate responses for ask a question, write an email, and draft a chat features. You can't customize this behavior.

### Enable knowledge base

Select **Knowledge base** to allow Copilot to utilize internal knowledge base resources for generating responses. This will be used for the ask a question and draft an email features, both in the Copilot help pane and the rich text editor. By default, this option is disabled.

If you've disabled the knowledge base option, agents will be able to use Copilot to draft an email using the **Suggest a call**, **Request more information**, **Empathize with feedback** and **Custom** prompts.

### Add trusted webpages as sources

You can select **Add web address** in **Web resources** to add trusted domains. You can add up to five trusted web domains for Copilot to search and generate responses from. Copilot searches for information up to two levels down from the configured domain. You must enable the Bing Search in Power Platform admin center to add trusted web sources. See [Enable data across geographic locations](/microsoft-copilot-studio/manage-data-movement-outside-us#enable-data-across-geographic-locations).

Copilot uses articles that are two nodes down the configured domain.

> [!NOTE]
> - The knowledge base content is refreshed every day.
> - External websites are used by Copilot to draft emails and chat replies only.

## Enable translation

Select **Let agents translate responses** to allow agents to translate responses generated by Copilot to their preferred language. Agents can choose from a list of languages that your organization has added to Dynamics 365 Customer Service.


### See also

[Use Copilot to solve customer issues](../use/use-copilot-features.md)
