ce/field-service/mobile-power-app-use.md, before:

---
title: "Use the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app | MicrosoftDocs"
description: Learn how to use the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app.
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-fieldservice
ms.date: 11/17/2020
ms.reviewer: krbjoran
ms.topic: article
ms.service: dynamics-365-customerservice
applies_to: 
  - "Dynamics 365 (online)"
  - "Dynamics 365 Version 9.x"
author: FieldServiceDave
ms.author: daclar
manager: shellyha
search.app: 
  - D365CE
  - D365FS
---


# Use the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app to complete work orders

Available natively for Apple iOS and Google Android phones and tablets, the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app offers technicians many capabilities they need to perform onsite customer service, such as:  

- A calendar view of assigned jobs.
- Support for picture, video, and asset barcode scanning.
- Customer signature capture.
- Offline capabilities so technicians can continue viewing and recording work in areas without internet.


> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image of the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app on a phone and a tablet.](./media/mobile-2020-tablet-website.png)

## Sign in

Upon sign-in, the app will download important Field Service information as defined by system administrators. 

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device renders showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing the offline status.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-downloading2.png)

## View scheduled work orders

The first screen you'll see is a calendar view of your scheduled work orders.

Select **More** > **Show as** > **Read-only Grid** to see the bookings as a list as shown on the right side of the following screenshot.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing two mobile devices with Field Service (Dynamics 365). The screen on the left has a list of My Open Resource Bookings by date. The screen on the right has a list of My Open Resource Bookings in a flat list.](./media/mobile-2020-booking-view.jpg)

Select a booking to see more details about the booking time and the work order. For example, you can update the status to **Traveling** to indicate you are driving to the customer location; on the **Customer tab**, you can see the work order location on a map and trigger turn-by-turn driving directions from a GPS app on your phone such as Bing Maps, Apple Maps, Waze, or Google Maps.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing two mobile devices side by side, both with screenshots of Field Service (Dynamics 365). Screenshot on the left shows a bookable resource booking on the general tab. Screenshot on the right shows a map.](./media/mobile-2020-work-order-navigate-directions-map.jpg)

On the **Service tab**, you'll see work order details like work order service tasks, products, and services. In one click, you can mark a service or service task complete along with the products used. Adjust the product units and the service hours as needed. Selecting the service task, service, or product name will send you to the full details form.


> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing three mobile devices with Field Service (Dynamics 365) open. First screenshot on the left shows the service tab on the bookable resource booking. Middle screenshot shows the service tab. Right screenshot shows the notes tab.](./media/mobile-2020-work-order-service-notes-new.jpg)

On the **Notes tab**, you can add note text, pictures, and videos, as well as customer signature capture.

## Find more information

To get to the sitemap, select the menu icon from the calendar view. From here, you can find other important information like accounts, contacts, customer assets, or to record time off.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing two mobile devices with screenshots of Field Service (Dynamics 365). The device on the left shows the full menu for Field Service (Dynamics 365). The device on the right shows an account detail page.](./media/mobile-2020-sitemap-account.jpg)

## Global search (search with barcode)

Select the global search icon to search for records across accounts, contacts, work orders, customer assets, or any other entity. Technicians can also search by scanning a barcode with their phone's camera. The barcode scan will find records that have a matching barcode field.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing four mobile devices in different stages of the barcode scan process.](./media/mobile-2020-global-search-use.png)

For more information, see the article on [configuring global search](https://docs.microsoft.com/dynamics365/field-service/mobile-power-app-configure#customize-global-search-and-enable-scan-to-search).

## Work offline

If you expect to be performing work in areas without internet access, you can download important information to your device to keep working.

The Field Service mobile app runs in **offline by default**. Offline by default is a mode where the app runs offline first and performs consistently with or without internet connectivity. Technicians no longer need to decide to go offline or manually switch between online and offline modes.

Consider a scenario where a technician needs to work in the basement of an industrial complex. They will often have limited or no internet connectivity. Working offline will download their work orders, notes, service tasks, and pictures for use without connectivity; once connectivity is restored, new data is automatically synced back to the server. This process happens without interruption to the technician's experience.

Upon sign-in, the app will download important Field Service information as defined by system administrators. For more information, see the article on [configuring offline sync filters](mobile-power-app-system-offline.md).

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device renders showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing the offline status.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-downloading2.png)

When the **Status** is set to **Available**, you'll have all the data you need to work offline.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device renders showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing an option to update offline data.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-complete.png)

> [!Note]
> When the technician has internet connectivity, data on the device is automatically refreshed every five minutes.

Technicians also have the option to **Update offline data** manually by going to the home screen, selecting the offline icon in the bottom left, then selecting the **Update offline data** option. 

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device renders showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing how to get to the update offline data option.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-update-offline-data2.png)

Technicians may also want to sync specific views when they have internet connectivity. For instance: 

- The technician wants to check for new bookings on their calendar before starting to drive.
- The technician wants to check for updates on a work order made by other crew members. 

To sync specific views, select **Refresh** from the app's bottom menu. For example, you can refresh bookings by selecting the **Refresh** option, shown in the following screenshot.


> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device render showing Field Service (Dynamics 365), with attention to the refresh option.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-refresh.png)


## Delete data and clear cache from device

To remove all cached data, you need to reconfigure the app.

Go to the main menu, then select the person icon in the top left.

Then select **Reconfigure**.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device render showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing the reconfigure option.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-reconfigure.png)

Reconfiguring deletes data and metadata for the current organization from the cache.

> [!Tip]
> Don't rely solely on the reconfiguration for security measures.

Make sure to reconfigure before you sign out. You won't be able to reconfigure if you're signed into another organization.

## IoT on the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app

For organizations using Connected Field Service, technicians can view and interact with IoT data and actions in the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app.
 
> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing three phones with Field Service mobile app and IoT device readings.](./media/mobile-2020-cfs.png)

For more information, see the article on [Connected Field Service for the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app](cfs-mobile-powerapp.md).

## Trigger Dynamics 365 Remote Assist

Organizations using Dynamics 365 Remote Assist will see technicians can trigger a deep link from the work order to open the Dynamics 365 Remote Assist mobile app.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing a phone with Field Service mobile and a menu option to launch Dynamics 365 Remote Assist.](./media/mobile-2020-remote-assist.png)

For more information, see the article: [Using Field Service with Dynamics 365 Remote Assist](remote-assist-hololens.md).

Commit message:

Add follow up work order documentation

ce/field-service/mobile-power-app-use.md, after:

---
title: "Use the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app | MicrosoftDocs"
description: Learn how to use the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app.
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-fieldservice
ms.date: 11/17/2020
ms.reviewer: krbjoran
ms.topic: article
ms.service: dynamics-365-customerservice
applies_to: 
  - "Dynamics 365 (online)"
  - "Dynamics 365 Version 9.x"
author: FieldServiceDave
ms.author: daclar
manager: shellyha
search.app: 
  - D365CE
  - D365FS
---


# Use the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app to complete work orders

Available natively for Apple iOS and Google Android phones and tablets, the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app offers technicians many capabilities they need to perform onsite customer service, such as:  

- A calendar view of assigned jobs.
- Support for picture, video, and asset barcode scanning.
- Customer signature capture.
- Offline capabilities so technicians can continue viewing and recording work in areas without internet.


> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image of the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app on a phone and a tablet.](./media/mobile-2020-tablet-website.png)

## Sign in

Upon sign-in, the app will download important Field Service information as defined by system administrators. 

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device renders showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing the offline status.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-downloading2.png)

## View scheduled work orders

The first screen you'll see is a calendar view of your scheduled work orders.

Select **More** > **Show as** > **Read-only Grid** to see the bookings as a list as shown on the right side of the following screenshot.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing two mobile devices with Field Service (Dynamics 365). The screen on the left has a list of My Open Resource Bookings by date. The screen on the right has a list of My Open Resource Bookings in a flat list.](./media/mobile-2020-booking-view.jpg)

Select a booking to see more details about the booking time and the work order. For example, you can update the status to **Traveling** to indicate you are driving to the customer location; on the **Customer tab**, you can see the work order location on a map and trigger turn-by-turn driving directions from a GPS app on your phone such as Bing Maps, Apple Maps, Waze, or Google Maps.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing two mobile devices side by side, both with screenshots of Field Service (Dynamics 365). Screenshot on the left shows a bookable resource booking on the general tab. Screenshot on the right shows a map.](./media/mobile-2020-work-order-navigate-directions-map.jpg)

On the **Service tab**, you'll see work order details like work order service tasks, products, and services. In one click, you can mark a service or service task complete along with the products used. Adjust the product units and the service hours as needed. Selecting the service task, service, or product name will send you to the full details form.


> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing three mobile devices with Field Service (Dynamics 365) open. First screenshot on the left shows the service tab on the bookable resource booking. Middle screenshot shows the service tab. Right screenshot shows the notes tab.](./media/mobile-2020-work-order-service-notes-new.jpg)

On the **Notes tab**, you can add note text, pictures, and videos, as well as customer signature capture.

## Find more information

To get to the sitemap, select the menu icon from the calendar view. From here, you can find other important information like accounts, contacts, customer assets, or to record time off.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing two mobile devices with screenshots of Field Service (Dynamics 365). The device on the left shows the full menu for Field Service (Dynamics 365). The device on the right shows an account detail page.](./media/mobile-2020-sitemap-account.jpg)

## Global search (search with barcode)

Select the global search icon to search for records across accounts, contacts, work orders, customer assets, or any other entity. Technicians can also search by scanning a barcode with their phone's camera. The barcode scan will find records that have a matching barcode field.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing four mobile devices in different stages of the barcode scan process.](./media/mobile-2020-global-search-use.png)

For more information, see the article on [configuring global search](https://docs.microsoft.com/dynamics365/field-service/mobile-power-app-configure#customize-global-search-and-enable-scan-to-search).

## Work offline

If you expect to be performing work in areas without internet access, you can download important information to your device to keep working.

The Field Service mobile app runs in **offline by default**. Offline by default is a mode where the app runs offline first and performs consistently with or without internet connectivity. Technicians no longer need to decide to go offline or manually switch between online and offline modes.

Consider a scenario where a technician needs to work in the basement of an industrial complex. They will often have limited or no internet connectivity. Working offline will download their work orders, notes, service tasks, and pictures for use without connectivity; once connectivity is restored, new data is automatically synced back to the server. This process happens without interruption to the technician's experience.

Upon sign-in, the app will download important Field Service information as defined by system administrators. For more information, see the article on [configuring offline sync filters](mobile-power-app-system-offline.md).

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device renders showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing the offline status.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-downloading2.png)

When the **Status** is set to **Available**, you'll have all the data you need to work offline.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device renders showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing an option to update offline data.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-complete.png)

> [!Note]
> When the technician has internet connectivity, data on the device is automatically refreshed every five minutes.

Technicians also have the option to **Update offline data** manually by going to the home screen, selecting the offline icon in the bottom left, then selecting the **Update offline data** option. 

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device renders showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing how to get to the update offline data option.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-update-offline-data2.png)

Technicians may also want to sync specific views when they have internet connectivity. For instance: 

- The technician wants to check for new bookings on their calendar before starting to drive.
- The technician wants to check for updates on a work order made by other crew members. 

To sync specific views, select **Refresh** from the app's bottom menu. For example, you can refresh bookings by selecting the **Refresh** option, shown in the following screenshot.


> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device render showing Field Service (Dynamics 365), with attention to the refresh option.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-refresh.png)


## Create follow up work orders

While working on a site, technicians may come across situations where additional work needs to be performed at a later time. The Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app makes it easy to create follow up work orders after completing the current work order. This feature pre-populates several columns from the current work order, making it easier for the technician to quickly create the new work order.

To create a follow up work order, once the technician has set the booking status to **Completed**, they can then select the **Follow up** option from the options in the bottom app menu. The option will only show up for users with **create** permissions on the work order table. For more details on the security roles, see [users and security roles](./view-user-accounts-security-roles.md).

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device render showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing the follow up work order option](./media/mobile-follow-up-work-order.png)

This guides the technician through the new work order creation flow, with the following columns filled with data from the current work order:

- Address - including msdyn_addressName, msdyn_address1, msdyn_address2, msdyn_address3, msdyn_city, msdyn_country, msdyn_latitude, msdyn_longitude, msdyn_postalCode, msdyn_stateOrProvince
- Billing Account
- Service Account
- Service Territory
- Exchange Rate
- Tax Code
- Taxable
- Transaction Currency ID

Once the technician saves the work order, it gets uploaded and available to be booked by the dispatcher.

## Delete data and clear cache from device

To remove all cached data, you need to reconfigure the app.

Go to the main menu, then select the person icon in the top left.

Then select **Reconfigure**.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Device render showing the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app, showing the reconfigure option.](./media/mobile-2020-offline-reconfigure.png)

Reconfiguring deletes data and metadata for the current organization from the cache.

> [!Tip]
> Don't rely solely on the reconfiguration for security measures.

Make sure to reconfigure before you sign out. You won't be able to reconfigure if you're signed into another organization.

## IoT on the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app

For organizations using Connected Field Service, technicians can view and interact with IoT data and actions in the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app.
 
> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing three phones with Field Service mobile app and IoT device readings.](./media/mobile-2020-cfs.png)

For more information, see the article on [Connected Field Service for the Field Service (Dynamics 365) mobile app](cfs-mobile-powerapp.md).

## Trigger Dynamics 365 Remote Assist

Organizations using Dynamics 365 Remote Assist will see technicians can trigger a deep link from the work order to open the Dynamics 365 Remote Assist mobile app.

> [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
> ![Simulated image showing a phone with Field Service mobile and a menu option to launch Dynamics 365 Remote Assist.](./media/mobile-2020-remote-assist.png)

For more information, see the article: [Using Field Service with Dynamics 365 Remote Assist](remote-assist-hololens.md).
