---
title: Known issues and limitations
ms.reviewer: wesmith
description: Learn about the known issues and limitations with the Field Service and Project Operations integration.
ms.date: 07/10/2026
ms.topic: article
author: vhorvathms
ms.author: vhorvath
---

# Known issues and limitations

## Limitations

- The integration doesn't support **Discount amounts**, but it supports **Discount percentages**. The integration converts existing **Discount amounts** that Field Service created before the integration to **Discount percentages**, which can occasionally be off due to rounding issues.
- The integration doesn't support **Estimated discounts**.
- The integration doesn't support fees from Field Service to Project Operations. Fees are supported in Project Operations, but they don't flow from Field Service through the integration.
- The integration doesn't support migration from the legacy finance and operations integration.
- The integration doesn't support linking an agreement to a project task. You can [link agreements to projects](project-operations-integration-work-order.md#link-a-project-to-an-agreement).
- The mobile offline profiles that the integration installs are active regardless of whether the [Field Service Integration with Project Operations toggle](project-operations-integration-setup.md#enable-the-integration) is enabled or not. These profiles override the out-of-the-box profiles.
- Actuals that the integration produces aren't associated to the work order that they came from. This design choice distinguishes the fact that they're actually generated by and for a project, from Project Operations, and not from Field Service.
- If the technician updating the work order product or work order service doesn't already have an associated *BookableResource*, the system automatically creates one to support integration and ensure accurate tracking of generated actuals. To maintain data accuracy, consider proactively [creating a BookableResource](set-up-bookable-resources.md) for each user who creates or updates work order lines. If you're using an environment that is integrated with finance and operations, add the Company field on the *BookableResource*.
- By design, work order services use the [*Material* transaction class](/dynamics365/project-operations/actuals/businesstransactions) and appear in Finance as *Item* transactions.
- Project Operations doesn't support project [production orders](/dynamics365/business-central/production-about-production-orders) in an integrated Project Operations with Finance environment. However, consumption of bill of material items or finished goods through standard inventory scenarios is still supported.
- Task management must be done in Project Operations as it requires a Project Operations license.
- You must handle labor estimates through the Project Operations task grid.
- The summary section on the **Work Orders** page in Field Service doesn't reflect time entries.
- Hourly rate information is concealed on the *BookableResource* record within Field Service.
- Time off requests don't participate in the synchronization or integration between Field Service and Project Operations.

## Known issues

### Unable to approve Material Usage Log for stocked products

When you try to approve material usage records that involve stocked products, you might receive an error. The error occurs because Project Operations asynchronously calls a virtual table, which leads to a failure when retrieving Project On-Hand inventory data. For more information, see [Configuring the asynchronous threshold for approval sets](/dynamics365/project-operations/approvals/approval-sets#configuring-the-asynchronous-threshold-for-approval-sets).

To fix the issue, perform the following steps:

1. In Project Operations, go to the **Settings** area.

1. Select **Parameters** and open the only record.

1. Under the **Modern Approvals** section, enter any value greater than zero in the **Background Approval Threshold** field and then save.

1. Approve the Material Usage Logs. All future Material Usage Logs are automatically approved if the **Auto-Approve Project Approval** setting is enabled.

### Cost Actual might occasionally differ from Cost Journal Line

If you [Integrated Project Operations deployment model](project-operations-integration-inventory.md), updates to Cost Actuals can come from Finance, resulting in Cost Actuals with Extended Amounts that are different from their parallel Cost Journal Line. This difference is expected and is caused by your costing parameters in Finance that sometimes result in needed adjustments to Actuals. For example, weighted averages or first-in, first-out (FIFO) costs can be different from the more static cost on a price list. Learn more in [Inventory cost for material usage](/dynamics365/project-operations/procurement/stock-material-reservation#inventory-cost-for-material-usage).

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
