---
title: Use knowledge insights for Customer Knowledge Management Agent (preview)
description: Use insights to enhance Customer Knowledge Management Agent, ensuring high-quality knowledge base and optimizing Copilot's performance.
author: Soumyasd27
ms.author: sdas
ms.reviewer: Soumyasd27
ms.topic: how-to
ms.collection:
ms.date: 03/28/2025
ms.custom:
  - bap-template
  - ai-gen-docs-bap
  - ai-gen-desc
  - ai-seo-date:02/26/2025
---

# Use knowledge insights for Customer Knowledge Management Agent (preview)

[This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]

The effectiveness of Copilot responses depends on the quality of the knowledge base. To create and maintain high-quality knowledge articles, supervisors require insights such as:

- How articles are created.
- Where articles are in the review and publish workflow.
- Whether articles are used in Copilot responses.
- If customer service representatives find the articles useful in their daily work.

These insights help supervisors identify and address gaps, enhance the knowledge repository, and optimize Copilot's performance.

[!INCLUDE [preview-banner](../../../shared-content/shared/preview-includes/production-ready-preview-dynamics365.md)]

Supervisors and content managers can view the **Overall performance** report on the **Knowledge analytics** dashboard in Customer Service workspace to get analytics on Customer Knowledge Management Agent.

### Benefits of insights on Customer Knowledge Management Agent

- Self-service article publishing, and greater resource control reduce support and content management costs.
- Understanding the performance of Copilot-drafted content can ensure transitioning to fully autonomous harvesting.
- Service representatives can provide feedback through a five-star rating approach with suggested prompts. This helps the system and the content managers identify and act on low quality articles more efficiently.

## Prerequisites

- Your administrator has turned on [Customer Knowledge Management Agent ](../administer/admin-km-agent.md) and enabled the **Real-time creation** and **Creation from historical cases** options.

- Your administrator has enabled the **Record user interactions with AI, including user actions and their feedback on AI suggestions** option, on the **Customer Knowledge Management Agent (preview)** > **User experience data** section.

## Overall performance dashboard

:::image type="content" source="../media/overall-performance.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the overall performance dashboard for Customer Knowledge Management Agent":::

## Metrics in Overall performance report

The **Overall performance** report represents the following metrics.


|Metrics  |Description  |
|---------|---------|
|Total articles published    |     The total number of knowledge articles published. The different colors indicate the knowledge articles generated by Copilot or manually.       |
|Articles by status   |  The donut charts show the knowledge articles that were created by Copilot or manually, broken down by article status.   |
|Average quality score| The average feedback rating from service representatives on the quality of knowledge articles. Service representatives provide feedback on articles by selecting the thumbs up or thumbs down option.|
|Articles to revise| The number of knowledge articles with a quality score less than or equal to two, over a specified period of time.|
|Usage by Copilot|The number of times a knowledge article, created by Copilot or manually, is referenced when service representatives chat with Copilot.|
|Quality score trend| The performance of knowledge articles based on service representatives feedback over time. It displays the quality trend of articles created by Copilot versus articles created manually.|

## Related information

[Introduction to knowledge analytics](../use/knowledge-search-analytics-cs.md#introduction-to-knowledge-analytics)