---
title: Use Copilot filters
description: Learn how to use filters in Copilot to generate responses.
author: gandhamm
ms.author: mgandham
ms.reviewer: mgandham
ms.topic: how-to 
ms.collection: bap-ai-copilot
ms.date: 01/19/2026
ms.update-cycle: 180-days
ms.custom: bap-template 
---

# Use Copilot filters

[!INCLUDE[cc-feature-availability-cs-only](../../includes/cc-feature-availability-cs-only.md)]


Copilot filters help you generate responses based on a specific set of articles. Filters provide immediate context and reduce the chance of you getting irrelevant responses when you use Copilot.

> [!NOTE]
> We recommend you ensure that the appropriate knowledge content is available for the filters you set so that you see the expected responses. 

Administrators can configure different filter settings for you. The following actions are applicable based on the filter settings:
 
 - You can select filters to refine the responses generated by Copilot.
 - View and edit automated filters. These filters are applied based on the current record that you open. Else, these filters work in the background and you can't view or edit them.

For example, your organization has several departments and you work on credit card related queries only. If you apply the credit card filter, Copilot retrieves the relevant credit card content only from the knowledge source, which is then used to generate responses.
 
If automated filters are enabled for the case based on the location of the customer's account, Copilot applies the filter automatically when you open the case. You can change the filter as required.

When both the filters are applied, Copilot generates responses based on both the filters.

To apply a filter, perform the following steps:

- Select **Filters** on the Copilot pane. The **Select filters** menu appears.
- Select the required options. You can also search for a filter option.
- Select **Apply**.

Once you set a filter, the following actions are applicable:
- When Copilot generates new responses or whenever you modify the filter configuration, a message indicating that filters are applied appears on the Copilot pane.
- A visual indicator with the number of filter options selected is displayed next to **Filters**.
- A visual indicator for the automated filter is displayed.
- The filters set apply to ask a question, draft a chat, and email.
- The filter is saved. You don't have to set the filter each time you sign in. 


### Related information

[Enable features in Copilot pane](/dynamics365/contact-center/administer/copilot-enable-help-pane)

