---
title: "Create activity templates for activity tiles (Dynamics 365 Marketing) | Microsoft Docs"
description: "How to create the templates required to generate activities for users from a customer journey in Dynamics 365 Marketing."
ms.date: 04/01/2018
ms.service: dynamics-365-marketing
ms.custom: 
  - dyn365-marketing
ms.topic: article
author: alfergus
ms.author: alfergus
manager: shellyha
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
search.app: 
  - D365CE
  - D365Mktg
---

# Create activity marketing templates for activity tiles

The activity tile enables a customer journey to generate an activity record (such as a phone call, task, or appointment), associate the activity with each contact who enters the tile, and assign each activity to a Dynamics 365 user for follow-up. Each activity tile uses an activity marketing template to define the type and details of the activities it generates.

To view, edit, and create an activity marketing template, go to one of the following areas, depending on which type of activity you are setting up:

- For phone-call activities, go to
 **Marketing templates** > **Call templates**.
- For task activities, go to
 **Marketing templates** > **Task templates**.
- For appointment activities, go to
 **Marketing templates** > **Appt. templates**.

In each case, you'll go to a list showing templates of your selected type. The list includes the usual controls to search, sort, and filter the list, and to add or remove templates.

All types of activity marketing templates have the following required settings:

- **Name**: The name you'll see when assigning the template to an activity tile.
- **Owner**: The Dynamics 365 user who owns the template. The user the activity gets assigned to is established by the settings for the tile that uses the template.
- **Subject**: The subject shown on each activity record generated by using this template.

Other settings for activity marketing templates vary by activity type and, like the **Subject**, are saved with each activity generated by using the template. These other settings map to those used by the activity records themselves.

### See also

[Generate activities from a customer journey](generate-activities-from-customer-journey.md)  
[Use customer journeys to create automated campaigns](customer-journeys-create-automated-campaigns.md)  
[Action tiles](customer-journey-tiles-reference.md#actions)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]