---
title: Responsible AI FAQs for content ideas
description: The Responsible AI FAQs discuss content ideas and the key considerations for making use of this technology responsibly.
ms.date: 07/19/2023
ms.custom: 
  - transparency-note
ms.topic: article
author: alfergus
ms.author: alfergus
search.audienceType: 
  - admin
  - customizer
  - enduser
---

# Responsible AI FAQs for content ideas

These responsible AI FAQs describe the AI impact of Dynamics 365 Marketing's content ideas feature.

## What is content ideas?

Content ideas is a feature in the Marketing email designer that helps you kickstart email creation and discover new ways to express your thoughts. To generate ideas, select the **Content ideas** button in the email editor and add up to five key points (two minimum) that you want to get across in your email. The key points can consist of a few words or complete sentences. The more specific your key points, the more precise content ideas's output is. Content ideas generates paragraphs of text based on your input that you can use in your marketing emails. Browse the generated ideas using the scrollbar in the content ideas pane. Select **Add to my draft** to copy the content into your email.

## What are the system’s capabilities?

Content ideas is built on a machine learning model called GPT-3. Trained on a vast number of text samples from the internet, GPT-3 generates new text in English that looks and sounds similar to text that was written by a human. Content ideas uses GPT-3 as a foundation, then (if enabled) considers your organization’s recent ready-to-send emails and the key messaging points that you share for each new email draft. Content ideas masks any personal data in generated ideas and shows only the results that are long enough and unique enough to be useful.

If you grant permission, content ideas will automatically review your organization’s recent (English) ready-to-send emails without any human review. The only time a human reviews the content of generated ideas is if you report it to Microsoft (using a quick feedback survey built into the content ideas feature).

## What is the system’s intended use?

The content ideas feature is intended to simplify email creation. Marketers can use content ideas to turn themes or ideas into full paragraphs that they can use in campaigns. Text generated by content ideas isn't intended to be used without manual review or supervision.

## How was content ideas evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?

Content ideas underwent substantial testing before the feature was released. Content ideas relies on user feedback to report inappropriate content. If you encounter inappropriate content being generated, report it to Microsoft using this feedback form: [Report abuse](https://msrc.microsoft.com/report/abuse?ThreatType=URL&IncidentType=Responsible%20AI&SourceUrl=https://dynamics.microsoft.com/marketing/overview/). Your feedback helps improve the functionality moving forward.

Microsoft may disable the content ideas feature for selected customers if abuse of the functionality is detected.

## What are the limitations of content ideas? How can users minimize the impact of the content ideas limitations when using the system?

Content ideas generates original content, but it isn’t always factual. In addition, because the underlying technology behind content ideas uses AI that has been trained on a wide range of internet sources, some text suggestions may include questionable or inappropriate content. It's your responsibility to edit generated suggestions so that your final copy is accurate and appropriate.

## What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of the system?

Follow these procedures to make the most of the content ideas feature:

1. Provide the relevant set of key points to describe what your message should be about: Use up to five descriptive key points, use a group of words or a full sentence for each key point, keep all the key-points around the same topic.
1. Ensure high-quality of text content in your 20+ recent **Ready-to-send** commercial marketing emails- These emails (together with provided key points) serve as an input for the AI service to generate personalized ideas.
1. Always review and edit content ideas suggestions before publishing them in an email or marketing campaign.

## See also

- [Use AI to kickstart email creation with content ideas](content-ideas.md)

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]