ce/customer-service/channel-integration-framework/shared/token-pass-url-widget-library.md, before:

To access the Dynamics 365 Channel Integration Framework (CIF) APIs, you need to load the `msdyn_cilibrary.js` file inside your communication widget. Since the widget is in a different domain, this library needs to know what Dynamics 365 domain it should talk to. For this reason you need to pass your Dynamics 365 instance URL to the widget library.

A Dynamics 365 URL to a widget library can be passed by using one of the following methods.

- Add attributes to the script tag
- Add a URL parameter

## Add attributes to the script tag

The widget provider has to add the following attributes to the script tag that loads `msdyn_cilibrary.js` to pass the Dynamics 365 domain:

`data-cifid: CIFMainLibrary` <br />
`data-crmurl: <CRM domain name>`

### Example

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://crmorg.crm.dynamics.com/webresources/Widget/msdyn_ciLibrary.js" data-crmurl="https://crmorg.crm.dynamics.com" data-cifid="CIFMainLibrary">
</script>
```

## Add a URL parameter

Another method is to pass a `ucilib` parameter in the landing URL, like `ucilib=https://crmorg.crm.dynamics.com/webresources/Widget/msdyn_ciLibrary.js`.

### Example

`https://widget.domain.com?ucilib=https://crmorg.crm.dynamics.com/webresources/Widget/msdyn_ciLibrary.js`

Commit message:

Retained Important section for CIF 2.0

ce/customer-service/channel-integration-framework/shared/token-pass-url-widget-library.md, after:

To access the Dynamics 365 Channel Integration Framework (CIF) APIs, you need to load the `msdyn_cilibrary.js` file inside your communication widget. Since the widget is in a different domain, this library needs to know what Dynamics 365 domain it should talk to. For this reason you need to pass your Dynamics 365 instance URL to the widget library.

> [!Important]
> For any organization hosted in Government Community Cloud (GCC) or Microsoft Cloud Germany, the provider domain should either reside inside the respective cloud or it should be allowed access from within that cloud. Government Community Cloud is supported in Channel Integration Framework v2.0.

A Dynamics 365 URL to a widget library can be passed by using one of the following methods.

- Add attributes to the script tag
- Add a URL parameter

## Add attributes to the script tag

The widget provider has to add the following attributes to the script tag that loads `msdyn_cilibrary.js` to pass the Dynamics 365 domain:

`data-cifid: CIFMainLibrary` <br />
`data-crmurl: <CRM domain name>`

### Example

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://crmorg.crm.dynamics.com/webresources/Widget/msdyn_ciLibrary.js" data-crmurl="https://crmorg.crm.dynamics.com" data-cifid="CIFMainLibrary">
</script>
```

## Add a URL parameter

Another method is to pass a `ucilib` parameter in the landing URL, like `ucilib=https://crmorg.crm.dynamics.com/webresources/Widget/msdyn_ciLibrary.js`.

### Example

`https://widget.domain.com?ucilib=https://crmorg.crm.dynamics.com/webresources/Widget/msdyn_ciLibrary.js`
