---
title: MICROSOFT DYNAMICS 365 FOR MICROSOFT TEAMS PRIVATE PREVIEW SUPPLEMENTAL TERMS
author: brycho
---

# MICROSOFT DYNAMICS 365 FOR MICROSOFT TEAMS PRIVATE PREVIEW SUPPLEMENTAL TERMS

These are the supplemental terms to the Microsoft Dynamics Insider Program
Agreement (the “Program Agreement”) for the Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Microsoft
Teams Private Preview program. Microsoft Corporation (or based on where you
live, one of Microsoft’s affiliates) licenses this supplement to you. You may
use it with each validly licensed subscription of Microsoft Dynamics 365 online
services (the “online service”). You may not use this supplement if you do not
have a license for the online service.

Notwithstanding any provision in the Program Agreement to the contrary,
Microsoft hereby grants you permission to use this Preview to access or process
any “live” or production Customer Data, or Personal Data (subject to the below)
solely for your testing and evaluation purposes only as part of your
participation in the Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Microsoft Teams Private Preview
program. Also, notwithstanding anything contrary provided for in the Online
Services Terms or the Microsoft Privacy Statement, you acknowledge and agree
that:

 a.  THIS PREVIEW IS NOT SUBJECT TO THE DATA SECURITY, GDPR, OR HIPAA TERMS;

 b.  THIS PREVIEW IS NOT SUBJECT TO ANY REFERENCES OR STATEMENTS MADE ON THE
    MICROSOFT TRUST CENTER;

 c.  YOU WILL NOT USE THIS PREVIEW TO PROCESS PERSONAL DATA IN EUROPE OR
    PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION IN THE UNITED STATES;

 d.  You represent that you are not an educational agency or institution to which
    regulations under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, 20 U.S.C. §
    1232g (FERPA) apply, and that you have not uploaded any information to which
    FERPA applies to Microsoft Dynamics 365; and

 e.  You take adequate precautionary measures to back-up and protect your data.

**IMPORTANT**:  If you are the administrator for the organization and have
authority to act on behalf of and to bind the organization, then by installing
or using this Preview, you consent to allow authorized users of Microsoft
Dynamics 365 online services to activate, configure and enable certain
functionality which transmits Customer Data to external systems. Please consult
the feature technical documentation for [more
information](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=869466).

Unless otherwise described within the text of this supplement, terms with the
initial letters capitalized will have the same meaning as given to them under
the Program Agreement as applicable.

BY USING THIS PREVIEW, PARTICIPANT ACCEPTS THESE TERMS. IF PARTICIPANT DOES NOT
AGREE TO THESE TERMS, DO NOT USE THIS PREVIEW.
