---
title: MICROSOFT ONLINE SERVICES TRIAL AGREEMENT
author: brycho
---

MICROSOFT ONLINE SERVICES TRIAL AGREEMENT<br>Last Revised: November 2017
========================================================================

This Microsoft Online Service Trial Agreement (this “**Agreement**”) applies
when:

>   **(A)** an individual signs up for any Trial Service (as defined below) with
>   an email address that has been provided by an organization by virtue of the
>   individual’s relationship with the organization; or
> 
>   **(B)** an individual becomes a qualified administrator by proving ownership
>   of the Internet domain associated with the email address used by an
>   individual entering into this Agreement to sign up for any Trial Service
>   (“**Domain**”), as described in Section 2.

This Agreement is a contract between Customer and Microsoft Corporation (or
based on where Customer lives (or, if Customer is an entity, where Customer’s
principal place of business or primary location is) one of Microsoft
Corporation’s affiliates). Except as specified in Section 2, “**Customer**”
means either the entity that accepts this Agreement through an Admin (as defined
in Section 2.1), or an individual user (not an Admin) who accepts this Agreement
as an individual. As used in this Agreement, references to “personnel” or
“Customer’s personnel” are applicable only if an entity has accepted this
Agreement through an Admin; if Customer is an individual user, Customer has no
personnel. This Agreement consists of and incorporates by reference Part I
(General Terms) and Part II (Trial Service Specific Terms), as applicable to a
given Trial Service. In the event of a conflict between Part I and Part II, the
Trial Service Specific Terms will control as to the applicable Trial Service. We
refer to any trial of a commercially-available service that links to this
Agreement as the “**Trial Service**.” Customer may use the Trial Service solely
in accordance with this Agreement.

**BY USING OR ACCESSING ANY TRIAL SERVICE, OR BY AGREEING TO THIS AGREEMENT
WHERE THE OPTION IS MADE AVAILABLE TO CUSTOMER IN THE USER INTERFACE, CUSTOMER
AGREES TO ABIDE BY THIS AGREEMENT WITHOUT MODIFICATION BY CUSTOMER. PLEASE READ
THIS AGREEMENT BEFORE USING OR ACCESSING ANY TRIAL SERVICE. IF CUSTOMER DOES NOT
AGREE, OR IS INELIGIBLE TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT (IN ACCORDANCE WITH
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA, IF ANY, SPECIFIED IN THE TRIAL SERVICE SPECIFIC TERMS),
CUSTOMER MAY NOT USE THE TRIAL SERVICE.**

**IF CUSTOMER LIVES IN (OR IF CUSTOMER IS AN ENTITY WITH ITS PRINCIPAL PLACE OF
BUSINESS OR PRIMARY LOCATION IN) THE UNITED STATES, PLEASE READ THE BINDING
ARBITRATION CLAUSE AND CLASS ACTION WAIVER IN SECTION 10. IT AFFECTS HOW
DISPUTES ARE RESOLVED.**

**Part I. GENERAL TERMS**

These General Terms apply to all Trial Services, except where modified by the
Trial Service Specific Terms.

**1. QUALIFIED USERS**

**1.1. Eligibility.** To be eligible to sign up for any Trial Service, Customer
must have a valid and current

email address that is provided by an organization using its Domain (Customer’s
“**Organization**”). If there is a question about whether or not an individual
is eligible, Microsoft retains the right to determine eligibility in its sole
discretion. If Customer’s policies prevent Customer from complying with this
Agreement, Customer is ineligible to access or use the Trial Service.

**1.2. ORGANIZATION MAY CONTROL CUSTOMER’S USER ACCOUNT AND DATA. THE TRIAL
SERVICE IS INTENDED FOR USE BY ORGANIZATIONS THAT SHARE AND CONTROL THE SAME
INTERNET DOMAIN. WHEN CUSTOMER USES AN EMAIL ADDRESS PROVIDED BY AN ORGANIZATION
TO ACCESS ANY TRIAL SERVICE, THE ORGANIZATION, AS THE OWNER OF THE DOMAIN
ASSOCIATED WITH CUSTOMER’S EMAIL ADDRESS, MAY (AS OF CUSTOMER’S FIRST ACCESS OR
IN THE FUTURE): (A) CONTROL AND ADMINISTER CUSTOMER’S USER ACCOUNT FOR THE TRIAL
SERVICE, INCLUDING MODIFYING OR TERMINATING CUSTOMER’S ACCESS TO ANY TRIAL
SERVICE; AND (B) ACCESS AND PROCESS CUSTOMER DATA, INCLUDING THE CONTENT OF
CUSTOMER’S COMMUNICATIONS AND FILES.**

**1.3. Organization Policies.** Customer acknowledges and understands the Trial
Service may be managed by an Admin (defined in Section 2.1), and, as such, his
or her employer controls and administers the User Accounts (defined in Section
1.4) for any Trial Service and his or her employer’s policies will also apply to
access and use of any Trial Service, but only to the extent they do not conflict
with this Agreement.

**1.4. Verification of Eligibility.** From time to time, Customer may be asked
to confirm the validity of Customer’s email account, and if that email account
is not confirmed as valid, Customer’s account for the Trial Service (“User
Account”) may be removed, and Microsoft may delete information or Customer Data
(as defined in Section 7) associated with Customer’s User Account, or otherwise
disable Customer’s access to such information or Customer Data. Microsoft is
under no obligation to retain or return Customer Data to Customer after
Customer’s User Account has been removed.

**2. QUALIFIED ADMINISTRATORS**

In this Section 2, “**Customer**” refers only to an Admin (as defined below).

**2.1. Eligibility.** To be eligible to be an administrator of the Organization
for any Trial Service (“Admin”), Customer must verify: **(A)** Customer’s
authorization to act on behalf of the Organization that owns the Domain
associated with the email and **(B)** Customer’s administrative control over
that Domain sufficient to manage the Domain records. Customer may also be
required to meet other eligibility criteria set by Microsoft. If there is a
question about whether or not Customer is eligible to be an Admin, Microsoft
will determine eligibility in its sole discretion. The Admin will have control
over the use of that Domain for all Microsoft online services, not only the
Trial Service.

**2.2. Admin Assumption of Control.** If Customer qualifies as an Admin,
Customer will obtain control of all User Accounts associated with Customer’s
Domain, including Domain management, and capability to terminate a user’s access
to any Trial Service and to delete a user’s Customer Data. Customer acknowledges
that Customer’s users may have signed up for various Trial Service
subscriptions, as individuals. Until Customer replaces these individual
subscriptions with subscriptions for the Organization, this Agreement will
continue to apply to: **(A)** Customer’s use of the Trial Service as the Admin;
and **(B)** such users’ use of the Trial Service as individuals. It is
Customer’s responsibility as the Admin to inform Customer’s users of the terms
governing their further use of any Trial Service. Microsoft will continue to
allow Customer’s users to sign up for any Trial Service in accordance with the
Azure Active Directory settings for Customer’s Microsoft online services
account. If Customer does not want its users to self-sign up, Customer must turn
off that capability in the Organization’s Azure Active Directory settings.

**3. USE OF THE TRIAL SERVICE**

**3.1. Right to Use.** Microsoft grants Customer the limited, non-transferable,
non-exclusive, revocable right under Microsoft’s copyrights to access and use
the applicable Trial Service, solely during the applicable Trial Period (defined
in the Trial Service Specific Terms) only: **(A)** to test or evaluate it, using
demonstration data; and **(B)** for Customer’s limited internal use in a “live”
operating or commercial production environment. All such access or use is
subject to Customer (and its personnel) complying with this Agreement, any
policies and procedures Microsoft designates, and any limitations, prohibitions,
and restrictions on the Trial Service specified in this Agreement or any Trial
Service documentation. Minimum system requirements or other factors may affect
the ability to use any Trial Service. Microsoft reserves all other rights.

**3.2. Acceptable Use Policy.** Customer may not use a Trial Service: **(A)** in
a way prohibited by law, regulation, governmental order, or decree; **(B)** to
violate the rights of others; **(C)** to try to gain unauthorized access to or
disrupt any service, device, data, account, or network; **(D)** to distribute
malware or unsolicited commercial email (i.e., spam); **(E)** in a way that
could harm any Trial Service or impair anyone else’s use of it; or (F) in any
application or situation where failure of any Trial Service could lead to the
death or serious bodily injury of any person, or to severe physical or
environmental damage. Violation of the terms in this section may result in
suspension of the Trial Service in accordance with Section 5.2. Microsoft will
suspend the applicable Trial Service only to the extent reasonably necessary, as
determined by Microsoft in its sole discretion.

**3.3. Technical Limitations.** Customer must comply with, and may not work
around, any technical limitations in a Trial Service that allow Customer to use
it only in certain ways.

**3.4. Responsibility for User Accounts.** Customer is responsible for
maintaining the confidentiality of all User Accounts. Customer must promptly
notify Microsoft about any possible misuse of the User Accounts or
authentication credentials of Customer or its personnel or any security incident
related to any Trial Service.

**3.5. Trial Period.** Trial Services are offered solely on a short-term, trial
basis to give Customer and Customer’s personnel an opportunity to test and
evaluate whether the particular Trial Service is suitable for the Customer’s or
individual’s needs. The length of the period during which Customer or its
applicable personnel may conduct such testing and evaluation is specified for
each Trial Service in the Trial Service Specific Terms. After that period ends,
Customer’s or its applicable personnel’s rights to access or use that particular
Trial Service will end, or may otherwise be modified, as specified in the
applicable Trial Service Specific Terms.

**3.6. Verifying Compliance.** During and for three months after Customer’s
right to access or use any Trial Service ends, Customer will keep all usual and
proper records relating to each Trial Service and Customer’s use of it under
this Agreement. Microsoft may request that Customer conduct an internal audit of
all Trial Services in use throughout its Organization. By requesting an audit,
Microsoft does not waive its rights to enforce this Agreement or to protect its
intellectual property by any other means permitted by law. If verification or
self-audit reveals any unlicensed use, Customer must promptly terminate such use
or order sufficient commercial licenses to cover Customer’s past and present
use. If material unlicensed use is found, Customer must reimburse Microsoft for
its costs incurred in verification and acquire the necessary commercial licenses
at retail license cost within 30 days.

**3.7. Links to Third-Party Sites.** The Trial Service may include links to
third-party sites. Microsoft does not control such sites, and Microsoft is not
responsible for the content of any linked site, any links contained in a linked
site, or any changes or updates to such linked sites. Microsoft is not
responsible for webcasting or any other form of transmission received from any
linked site. Microsoft is providing these links to Customer, if at all, only as
a convenience, and the inclusion of any link does not imply endorsement by
Microsoft of the linked site. Linked sites are subject to the terms and privacy
statement of the third-party provider.

**3.8. Third-party Components.** The Trial Service or the Software (defined in
Section 6) may contain third-party components. Unless otherwise disclosed in the
Trial Service or Software, Microsoft, not the third party, licenses these
components to Customer under Microsoft’s license terms and notices. Any
third-party scripts or code, however, that are linked to or referenced from the
Trial Service, are licensed to Customer by the third parties that own such code,
not by Microsoft.

**3.9. Updates.** The Trial Service or any Software may periodically check for
Updates, and (as applicable) download and install them for Customer. Customer
may obtain Updates only from Microsoft or authorized sources. Microsoft may need
to apply Updates to Customer’s system. Customer agrees to receive these
automatic Updates without any additional notice. Updates may remove,
discontinue, or end support for, any then-existing features or functions (in
whole or in part) of any Trial Service or peripheral devices and may result in
deletion of Customer Data. This Agreement (as it may be updated periodically,
with prospective effect) will apply to Updates unless other terms accompany
them, in which case, those other terms apply. “**Update**” means any correction,
modification, cumulative update, enhancement, hot fix, bug fix, patch, service
pack, addition, minor version release, and other revision to the Trial Service
or Software that Microsoft makes generally available.

**3.10. Communications from Microsoft.** To the extent applicable law requires
Microsoft to obtain Customer’s consent before sending Customer marketing
communications (including email, telephone, or voice-over-IP) related to any
Trial Service, Customer acknowledges that, by registering for, activating, or
using a Trial Service, Customer has affirmatively given consent to receive
marketing communications (including email, telephone, or voice-over-IP) from
Microsoft or its affiliates or third-party service providers related to each
Trial Service or its successors, if any. If Customer does not consent to receive
these related marketing communications, Customer may not access or use any Trial
Service.

**3.11. User Accounts and Microsoft IDs.** Customer and its personnel may access
or use this Trial Service only after it has accepted the terms and conditions of
this Agreement and obtained applicable Microsoft user credentials (“**Microsoft
ID**”). Each of Customer’s personnel may need a separate Microsoft ID. The
Microsoft ID is subject to a separate agreement between Microsoft and Customer,
or between Microsoft and each of Customer’s personnel, as applicable. This
Agreement will neither merge nor supersede any such separate agreement. Customer
will, and will instruct its personnel to, keep its and their Microsoft IDs
confidential. Customer is solely liable for any activity that may take place
under its User Account or using its, or any of its personnel’s, Microsoft IDs.
Microsoft will not be liable for any loss resulting from an unauthorized person
using the Microsoft IDs or User Accounts. The Trial Service uses Customer’s and
its personnel’s Microsoft IDs for authentication purposes, in accordance with
the separate agreement.

**4. CHANGES AND FEEDBACK**

**4.1. Changes to the Agreement.** From time to time, Microsoft may change or
amend this Agreement, solely with prospective effect. Microsoft will notify
Customer of any such change or amendment, either through the applicable Trial
Service’s user interface, in an email message, or through other reasonable
means. If Customer does not agree to such a change, Customer must stop using at
least the specific Trial Services affected by the change, in which case the
change will not apply to Customer. By continuing to access, use, or receive any
of the affected Trial Services after Microsoft notifies Customer in the manner
described above, Customer consents to the changed or amended terms.

**4.2. Changes to the Trial Services.** The Trial Services may evolve over time,
and Microsoft may change them at any time without notice to Customer. From time
to time Microsoft may stop providing portions of a Trial Service. Microsoft may
do so, for example, if it is no longer feasible or practical for Microsoft to
provide a Trial Service, the technology changes, market feedback indicates a
change is needed, Microsoft’s agreements with third parties no longer permit
Microsoft to make their material available, or external issues arise that make
it imprudent or impractical to continue to provide a Trial Service.

**4.3. Previews.** Microsoft may offer features, data centers, and services,
each of which may be in preview, beta, or pre-release form or state, as or as
part of the Trial Service (“**Previews**”). Previews may employ lesser or
different privacy and security measures than those typically present in a
commercially-released Microsoft feature, data center, or online service.
Previews may not work correctly or in the same way a general availability
version may work. Microsoft may change or discontinue Previews at any time
without notice. Microsoft also may choose not to release a Preview into general
availability.

**4.4. Feedback.** If Customer provides suggestions, comments, input, or other
feedback about any Trial Service, including Previews (“**Feedback**”), Customer
gives to Microsoft without charge the right to use, share, and commercialize
Customer’s Feedback in any way or for any purpose. Customer also gives to third
parties without charge the right to use or interface with any specific parts of
a Microsoft software or service that includes the Feedback. Customer will not
give Feedback that is subject to any license that requires Microsoft to license
its software, documentation, or services to third parties because Microsoft
includes Customer’s Feedback in them.

**5. TERM AND TERMINATION**

**5.1. Term.** This Agreement begins as specified above and continues until
terminated as provided in this Section 5. Customer’s rights to access and use a
specific Trial Service, however, will expire as specified in the applicable
Trial Service Specific Terms. For clarity, the trial period for any Trial
Service can be applied at different times to different Customer personnel, so
long as: **(A)** no user is given more than a single trial period for a given
Trial Service (unless Microsoft agrees, in writing, to extend a given trial
period for a given set of users); and **(B)** Customer’s use of separate trial
periods for given Customer personnel for a given Trial Service is not a means
for Customer to avoid, limit, or delay the purchase of commercial subscriptions
to that Trial Service.

**5.2. By Microsoft.** If Customer violates this Agreement or is ineligible to
enter into it, Microsoft may: **(A)** remove Customer’s Customer Data from the
applicable Trial Service or disable Customer’s access to such Customer Data;
**(B)** suspend Customer’s access to the Trial Service, **(C)** refer such
activity to appropriate authorities; **(D)** pursue Microsoft’s remedies under
applicable law; or **(E)** take any combination of these actions. Microsoft may
also, for any reason or no reason, in its sole discretion: **(W)** stop offering
any Trial Service at any time, **(X)** terminate Customer’s access to any Trial
Service, or this Agreement, at any time; **(Y)** suspend Customer’s access under
Section 3.2 (Acceptable Use Policy); or **(Z)** in accordance with Section 4.2
(Changes to the Trial Services), stop providing portions of any Trial Service.

**5.3. By Customer’s Admin or Organization.** If Customer’s Admin has assumed
control of Customer’s User Account, the Admin may modify or remove Customer’s
access to a Trial Service. Even in the absence of an Admin takeover, the
Organization, as owner of the Domain associated with Customer’s email, may also
modify or remove Customer’s access to a Trial Service. Review the Trial Service
Specific Terms and the website, if any, for the specific Trial Service for any
additional details.

**5.4. By Customer.** Customer may terminate its access to or use of the Trial
Service associated with Customer’s User Account at any time and for any reason,
without further obligation, unless the Admin has assumed control of Customer’s
User Account. In such case, Customer must contact its Admin to manage the
applicable Trial Service (including terminating a specific Trial Service,
disabling Customer’s User Account, or deleting Customer Data). If an Admin has
not assumed control of Customer’s User Account for a specific Trial Service,
review the Trial Service Specific Terms and the website, if any, for the
specific Trial Service to understand how to terminate it, disable Customer’s
User Account, or delete Customer Data.

**5.5. Effect of Termination.** If Customer’s right to access a Trial Service is
terminated, the right to use that Trial Service stops immediately and Customer’s
license to use the software related to that Trial Service ends. If Customer’s
right to access a Trial Service is terminated, subject to the applicable Trial
Service Specific Terms, Microsoft will delete Customer’s information or Customer
Data or will otherwise disable Customer’s access to such information or Customer
Data. Microsoft is under no obligation to notify, or to return Customer Data to,
Customer, except as specified in the applicable Trial Service Specific Terms.
Customer must uninstall any Software when its right to use it ends. Microsoft
may also disable such Software at that time.

**6. USE OF MICROSOFT SOFTWARE WITH THE TRIAL SERVICE**

Microsoft may provide Customer with Microsoft software or Microsoft apps
(collectively, “**Software**”) as part of, or for use with, a Trial Service. If
the Software includes its own license, those terms control; otherwise, this
Section 6 applies.

**6.1. Use Rights.** Microsoft grants Customer the right to install and run any
number of copies of the Software on Customer’s devices for use with the specific
Trial Service in connection with which the Software was provided. The components
of the Software are licensed as a single unit, and Customer may not separate or
virtualize the components and install them on different devices.

**6.2. Scope of License.** The Software is licensed, not sold. This Agreement
only gives Customer some rights to use the Software. Microsoft reserves all
other rights. Unless applicable law gives Customer more rights despite this
limitation, Customer may use the Software only as expressly permitted in this
Agreement. In doing so, Customer must comply with any technical limitations in
the Software that allow Customer to use it only in certain ways. Customer may
not: **(A)** work around any technical limitations in the Software; **(B)**
disassemble, decompile, or reverse engineer the Software, except and only to the
extent permitted by applicable law (or, solely for libraries licensed under the
GNU Lesser General Public License that are included with and linked to or by the
Software, as expressly allowed by that license) despite this limitation; **(C)**
remove, minimize, block, or modify any notices of Microsoft or its suppliers in
the Software; **(D)** use the Software in any way that is against the law; or
**(E)** share, publish, or lend the Software, or provide the Software as a
stand-alone hosted solution for others to use, or transfer the Software or this
Agreement to any third party.

**7. PRIVACY AND SECURITY TERMS**

For purposes of this Agreement, “**Customer Data**” means all data, including
all text, sound, video, or image files, and software, that are provided to
Microsoft by, or on behalf, of Customer through use of any Trial Service.

**7.1. Privacy.** Microsoft uses Customer’s Customer Data as described in the
Microsoft Privacy Statement at <https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=521839>.
Customer’s access to and use of any Trial Service operates as Customer’s consent
to these privacy practices. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Microsoft Privacy Statement, however, the Admin (if any) is authoritative for
purposes of managing Customer’s responses to third party requests, and the Admin
may access and disclose to a third party any Customer Data of Customer or its
personnel that the Admin has access to, in his or her discretion.

**7.2. Customer’s Responsibility for Customer Data.** Customer is solely
responsible for the content of all Customer Data. Customer will secure and
maintain all rights in Customer Data necessary for Microsoft to provide the
Trial Service to Customer without violating Customer’s policies or the rights of
any third party, or otherwise obligating Microsoft to Customer or to any third
party. Microsoft does not and will not assume any obligations with respect to
Customer Data or to Customer’s use of any Trial Service other than as expressly
set forth in this Agreement or as required by applicable law. Until such time as
an Admin (acting on Customer’s behalf) has assumed control of Customer’s User
Account, Customer is responsible for Customer Data. If an Admin has assumed
control of Customer’s User Account, the Admin controls Customer Data and access
to the Organization pursuant to Section 2. Subject to Customer’s policies (to
the extent they do not conflict with this Agreement), Customer may delete
Customer’s own Customer Data from any Trial Service, so long as Customer is
still a user of that Trial Service. If an Admin has assumed control of
Customer’s User Account, and Customer has questions regarding rights to Customer
Data, Customer must contact the Admin as Microsoft cannot answer individual user
questions regarding Customer Data after an Admin has assumed control.

**7.3. Public Features.** If Customer shares Customer Data in public areas of a
Trial Service, through features that permit public sharing of Customer Data, or
in shared areas available to others, anyone with whom Customer has shared
Customer Data may use, save, reproduce, distribute, display, and transmit that
Customer Data freely. If Customer does not want others to have that ability,
Customer must not (and has no right to) use the particular Trial Service to
share Customer Data.

**7.4. Service Disruptions and Backup.** Microsoft strives to keep the Trial
Service up and running; however, all online services suffer occasional
disruptions and outages, and Microsoft isn't liable for any disruption or loss
Customer may suffer as a result. During such periods, Customer may be unable to
access or use all or a portion of any Trial Service and some or all Customer
Data may be deleted. If Microsoft determines that an outage or disruption may
cause risk to any Trial Service, Microsoft may, without limitation to
Microsoft’s other rights under this Agreement, suspend the Trial Service. To the
extent a Trial Service allows, Customer should regularly back up the Customer
Data Customer may store on a Trial Service. Having a regular backup plan and
following it can help Customer prevent loss of Customer Data.

**8. OTHER MICROSOFT PRODUCTS AND NON-MICROSOFT PRODUCTS**

**8.1. Other Microsoft Products.** Customer may be able to access other
Microsoft software, data, services, websites, or products (“**Other Microsoft
Products**”) via a Trial Service. Customer’s use of Other Microsoft Products may
be subject to separate terms and conditions.

**8.2. Non-Microsoft Products.** Microsoft may make third-party-branded
software, data, services, websites, or products (“**Non-Microsoft Products**”)
available to Customer through use of a Trial Service (such as through a store or
gallery or other integration). Customer is solely responsible for its dealings
with third parties (including advertisers). Customer’s use of Non-Microsoft
Products may be subject to the third party’s terms and conditions. If Customer
installs or uses any Non-Microsoft Product with a Trial Service, Customer may
not do so in any way that would subject Microsoft’s intellectual property or
technology to obligations beyond those expressly included in this Agreement.
Microsoft assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any
Non-Microsoft Product. Customer is solely responsible for any Non-Microsoft
Product it installs or uses with a Trial Service.

**9. NO WARRANTIES; LIMITATION OF LIABILITY**

**9.1. NO WARRANTIES. MICROSOFT, AND ITS AFFILIATES, SUPPLIERS, RESELLERS,
DISTRIBUTORS, AND VENDORS, MAKE NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, GUARANTEES,
OR CONDITIONS WITH RESPECT TO CUSTOMER’S USE OF ANY TRIAL SERVICE. CUSTOMER
UNDERSTANDS THAT USE OF THE TRIAL SERVICE IS AT CUSTOMER’S OWN RISK, AND
MICROSOFT PROVIDES EACH TRIAL SERVICE ON AN “AS IS” BASIS, “WITH ALL FAULTS” AND
“AS AVAILABLE”. MICROSOFT DOES NOT GUARANTEE THE ACCURACY OR TIMELINESS OF
INFORMATION AVAILABLE FROM THE TRIAL SERVICE. TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER
APPLICABLE LAW, MICROSOFT EXCLUDES ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING OF FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, WORKMANLIKE
EFFORT, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. CUSTOMER MAY HAVE CERTAIN RIGHTS UNDER APPLICABLE
LAW THAT CANNOT BE VARIED BY THIS AGREEMENT. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT IS
INTENDED TO AFFECT, OR TRY TO AFFECT, THOSE RIGHTS TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW
DOES NOT PERMIT. CUSTOMER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT COMPUTER AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SYSTEMS ARE NOT FAULT-FREE AND PERIODS OF DOWNTIME PERIODICALLY OCCUR. MICROSOFT
DOES NOT GUARANTEE THE TRIAL SERVICE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, TIMELY, SECURE, OR
ERROR-FREE OR THAT CUSTOMER DATA LOSS WILL NOT OCCUR.**

**9.2. Limitation of Liability.** If Microsoft breaches this Agreement, or if
Customer has any basis for recovering damages despite this Agreement’s
limitations, Customer’s exclusive remedy is to recover, from Microsoft or its
affiliates, suppliers, resellers, distributors, and vendors, direct damages up
to USD\$10.00 in the aggregate. **TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW,
WHATEVER THE LEGAL BASIS FOR THE CLAIM, CUSTOMER CAN'T RECOVER ANY OTHER DAMAGES
OR LOSSES, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIAL, LOST PROFITS, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES.** These limitations and exclusions apply even if this
remedy does not fully compensate Customer for any losses, or fails of its
essential purpose, or if Microsoft knew or should have known about the
possibility of the damages. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law,
these limitations and exclusions apply to anything related to this Agreement
such as: **(A)** loss of Customer Data; **(B)** any virus affecting Customer’s
use of any Trial Service; **(C)** delays or failures in starting or completing
transmissions or transactions; **(D)** claims for breach of contract, warranty,
guarantee, or condition; **(E)** strict liability, negligence,
misrepresentation, omission, trespass, or other tort; **(F)** violation of
statute or regulation; or **(G)** unjust enrichment. **Some or all of these
limitations or exclusions may not apply to Customer if Customer’s state,
province, or country does not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental,
consequential, or other damages.**

**9.3. Geographic Limitations. THE TRIAL SERVICE MAY BE MADE AVAILABLE FOR USE
ONLY IN CERTAIN GEOGRAPHIES AND FOR USE ONLY BY CERTAIN CLASSES OF
ORGANIZATIONS, AS AND TO THE EXTENT SPECIFIED IN THE APPLICABLE TRIAL SERVICE
SPECIFIC TERMS. IF CUSTOMER IS SIGNING UP FOR THE TRIAL SERVICE FROM A GEOGRAPHY
THAT IS NOT INCLUDED, OR IF ITS ORGANIZATION IS NOT OF THE CLASS SPECIFIED, IN
THE APPLICABLE TRIAL SERVICE SPECIFIC TERMS: (A) CUSTOMER IS INELIGIBLE TO
ACCESS OR USE THE TRIAL SERVICE; AND (B) WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF
SECTION 9.1, CUSTOMER’S ACCESS AND USE OF THE TRIAL SERVICE IS SOLELY AT
CUSTOMER’S OWN RISK (INCLUDING FOR COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS). IF THE
TRIAL SERVICE SPECIFIC TERMS DO NOT INCLUDE ANY GEOGRAPHIC LIMITATIONS, OR
LIMITATIONS ON THE CLASS OF ORGANIZATIONS ELIGIBLE TO ACCESS AND USE THE TRIAL
SERVICE, THERE ARE NO SUCH LIMITATIONS FOR THAT TRIAL SERVICE.**

**10. BINDING ARBITRATION AND CLASS ACTION WAIVER IF CUSTOMER LIVES (OR IS AN
ENTITY WITH ITS PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS OR PRIMARY LOCATION) IN THE UNITED
STATES**

**This Section applies if Customer lives in (or, if an entity, Customer’s
principal place of business or primary location is in) the United States.** If
Customer and Microsoft have a dispute, Customer and Microsoft agree to try for
60 days to resolve it informally. If Customer and Microsoft can’t, Customer and
Microsoft agree to **binding individual arbitration before the American
Arbitration Association** under the Federal Arbitration Act (“**FAA**”), and
**not to sue in court in front of a judge or jury**. Instead, a neutral
arbitrator will decide. **Class action lawsuits, class-wide arbitrations,
private attorney-general actions,** and any other proceeding where someone acts
in a representative capacity **are not allowed**; nor is combining individual
proceedings without the consent of all parties. The complete Arbitration
Agreement contains more terms and is at <http://aka.ms/arb-agreement-1>.
Customer and Microsoft agree to these terms.

**11. CUSTOMER’S DUTY TO PROTECT MICROSOFT**

**11.1. Indemnity.** Customer will indemnify, pay the defense costs of, and hold
harmless Microsoft and its affiliates, and its and their respective successors,
officers, directors, and employees, from and against any and all unaffiliated
third-party claims, demands, costs, liabilities, judgments, losses, expenses,
and damages (including attorneys’ fees) arising out of, in connection with, or
related to: **(A)** Customer’s or Customer’s personnel’s use of a Trial Service
in breach of this Agreement; **(B)** Customer’s or Customer’s personnel’s use of
a Trial Service in a production or “live operating” environment; or **(C)**
anything not provided by Microsoft or its affiliates that Customer or Customer’s
personnel elect to use with a Trial Service (including any data, software, or
services), including any claim that any such materials or information, in whole
or in part, misappropriate any trade secret or infringe or otherwise violate any
copyright, patent, trademark, or other legal right of any third party
(collectively, “**Customer-indemnified Claims**”).

**11.2. Procedure.** Microsoft will: **(Y)** notify Customer in writing of any
Customer-indemnified Claims and permit Customer, through competent counsel
Customer chooses (in consultation with Microsoft), to answer and defend such
Customer-indemnified Claims; and **(Z)** provide the entity defending such
Customer-indemnified Claims information, assistance, and authority, at
Customer’s reasonable request and expense, to help such defense. Customer will
not stipulate, admit, or acknowledge any fault or liability on Microsoft’s part
without Microsoft’s express, prior, written permission. Customer will not be
responsible for any settlement made by Microsoft without Customer’s written
permission (which Customer will not unreasonably withhold, delay, or condition).
Customer may not settle any Customer-indemnified Claims on Microsoft’s behalf
without first obtaining Microsoft’s written permission (which Microsoft will not
unreasonably withhold, delay, or condition). If Customer and Microsoft agree to
settle any Customer-indemnified Claims, Customer will not disclose settlement
terms without Microsoft’s written permission.

**12. MISCELLANEOUS**

**12.1. Applicable Law and Place to Resolve Disputes.** If Customer acquired
access to the applicable Trial Service or Software in the United States or
Canada, the laws of the state or province where Customer lives (or, if Customer
is an entity, where Customer’s principal place of business or Customer’s primary
location is) govern the interpretation of this Agreement, claims for its breach,
and all other claims (including consumer protection, unfair competition, and
tort claims), regardless of conflict of laws principles, except that the FAA
governs everything related to arbitration. If Customer acquired access to a
Trial Service or the Software in any other country, its laws apply, except that
the FAA governs everything related to arbitration. If U.S. federal jurisdiction
exists, Customer and Microsoft consent to exclusive jurisdiction and venue in
the federal court in King County, Washington for all disputes heard in court
(excluding arbitration). If not, Customer and Microsoft consent to exclusive
jurisdiction and venue in the Superior Court of King County, Washington for all
disputes heard in court (excluding arbitration).

**12.2. Digital Rights Management.** If Customer accesses material protected
with digital rights management (“**DRM**”), the DRM software may automatically
request media usage rights from a rights server online and download and install
DRM updates so that Customer can play the material.

**12.2. Survival.** This section and Sections 4.4, 9, 10, 11, 12.1, 12.5, 12.6,
and those that by their terms apply after it ends, will survive any termination
of this Agreement.

**12.3. Assignment and Transfer.** Microsoft may assign this Agreement, in whole
or in part, at any time without notice to Customer. Customer may not assign this
Agreement or transfer any rights to use any Trial Service.

**12.5. Electronic Notices.** Microsoft may provide Customer with information
and notices about a Trial Service or the Software electronically, including via
email, through the portal for a Trial Service, or through a web site that
Microsoft identifies. Notice is given as of the date it is made available by
Microsoft. Customer’s access and use of a Trial Service or the Software operates
as Customer’s consent to these practices.

**12.6. Contract Interpretation.** This Agreement is the entire agreement
between Customer and Microsoft for Customer’s use of any Trial Service. It
supersedes any prior agreements between Customer and Microsoft regarding this
subject. All parts of this Agreement apply to the maximum extent permitted by
applicable law. If a court or arbitrator holds that part of this Agreement is
illegal or unenforceable as written, that part will be deemed replaced with
similar terms to the extent enforceable, but the rest of this Agreement will not
change. Captions are intended solely for convenience and will not affect the
meaning of this Agreement. Unless stated, or context requires otherwise: **(A)**
“written” or “in writing” means a non-electronic document only, manually signed
by authorized representatives of the writing party(ies); **(B)** all internal
references are to this Agreement and its parties; **(C)** “days” means “calendar
days”; **(D)** “may” means that the applicable party has a right, but not a
concomitant duty; **(E)** a party’s choices related to this Agreement are in its
sole discretion, subject to any implied duty of good faith; and **(F)** lists of
examples following “including”, “such as”, or “e.g.” are not exhaustive (i.e.,
are interpreted to include “without limitation”), unless qualified by words such
as “only” or “solely.” This Agreement will be interpreted according to the plain
meaning of its terms without any presumption that it should be construed to
favor either party. This Agreement has been executed in English, which will be
the sole and controlling language used in interpreting or construing its meaning
(except if otherwise required by applicable law). Solely for purposes of
Sections 9, 10, 11.5, and 12, each Trial Service is deemed to include Other
Microsoft Products, Non-Microsoft Products, any Software, and anything else
provided by Microsoft to Customer under or in relation to this Agreement.

**12.7. No Third-Party Beneficiaries.** This Agreement is solely for Customer’s
and Microsoft’s benefit. It isn’t for the benefit of any other person, except
for Microsoft’s successors and assigns.

**12.8. Government Employees.** This Section 12.8 applies if Customer is
employed by a governmental entity. Microsoft waives any and all entitlement to
compensation from Customer for any Trial Service or Software provided pursuant
to this Agreement. Microsoft intends that the terms for any Trial Service and
Software be in compliance with applicable laws and regulations with respect to
gratuitous services. It is specifically understood that any Trial Service or
Software and its deliverables provided are for the sole benefit and use of
Customer and are not provided for personal use or benefit of any individual
government employee.

**12.9. Font Components.** While accessing a Trial Service, Customer may use its
fonts to display and print content. Customer may temporarily download the fonts
to a printer or other output device to print content, and Customer may embed
fonts in content only as permitted by the embedding restrictions in the fonts.

**12.10. No Support.** Microsoft is not obligated to provide any support for any
Trial Service or Software. If Microsoft elects to do so, it is provided “as is”,
“with all faults”, and without warranty. Microsoft may cease providing any such
support at any time, without notice, and such support will end automatically on
the earlier of the date the applicable Trial Period or this Agreement ends.

**12.11. Export Restrictions.** Customer must comply with all domestic and
international export laws and regulations that apply to any software or the
Trial Service, which include restrictions on destinations, end users, and end
use. For further information on export restrictions, visit
<http://aka.ms/exporting>.

**12.12. Reservation of Rights.** Microsoft or its suppliers own any and all
right, title, and interest in any copyright and other intellectual property
rights in each Trial Service (which are deemed to exclude Customer’s Customer
Data). Microsoft and the names, logos, and icons of all Microsoft products,
software, and services may be either trademarks or registered trademarks of
Microsoft in the United States or other countries. The names of actual companies
and products may be the trademarks of their respective owners. Any rights not
expressly granted in this Agreement are reserved.

**12.13. Competitive Benchmarking.** If Customer is a direct competitor, and
Customer accesses or uses any Trial Service or Software for purposes of
competitive benchmarking, analysis, or intelligence gathering, Customer waives,
as against Microsoft, its subsidiaries, and its affiliated companies (including
prospectively), any competitive use, access, and benchmarking test restrictions
in the terms governing Customer’s software, services, and other technologies to
the extent Customer’s terms of use are, or purport to be, more restrictive than
Microsoft’s terms. If Customer does not waive any such purported restrictions in
the terms governing its software, services, and other technologies, it is not
allowed to access or use any Trial Service or Software, and will not do so.

**Part II. TRIAL SERVICE SPECIFIC TERMS**

Any additional legal terms that apply to Customer’s use of a specific Trial
Service (“**Trial Service Specific Terms**”) are set forth in this Part II. If a
particular Trial Service links to this Agreement and it is not listed in the
Trial Service Specific Terms, it does not have any Trial Service Specific Terms.
For avoidance of doubt, different Trial Service Specific Terms may be applicable
to Customer or its personnel at different times, and multiple Trial Service
Specific Terms may be applicable at one time, all depending on which Trial
Periods are in effect for which Trial Services at any given time.

**Trial Service Specific Terms for Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Finance and
Operations, Business edition**

These terms supplement the applicable terms in Part I above.

**1. Trial Period.** Customer may use this Trial Service from when Customer is
first given access to it: **(A)** solely with demonstration data provided by
Microsoft, until the Agreement or Customer’s right to access this Trial Service
is terminated; and **(B)** with “live” or production Customer Data, for 30 days
after Customer first uses this Trial Service with such Customer Data. The
foregoing period is, collectively, the “**Trial Period**”. If the Trial Period
in the foregoing clause (B) expires and Customer has not entered into a
commercial subscription agreement for the Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Finance and
Operations, Business edition service with a third-party Microsoft cloud service
provider that will offer and support such commercial version, then Customer must
immediately stop using the Trial Service (or any successor service) with such
“live” or production Customer Data. Customer may, however, continue to use the
Trial Service under the foregoing clause (A), solely with such demonstration
data.

**2. Exporting Customer Data.** If Customer has included “live” or production
Customer Data in this Trial Service, and Customer elects not to purchase a
subscription to the Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Finance and Operations, Business
edition service before expiration of the Trial Period for this Trial Service:
**(A)** Microsoft has no obligation to return Customer Data to Customer; **(B)**
Microsoft will retain such Customer Data for at least 90 days after the
expiration of the Trial Period; and **(C)** Microsoft will make commercially
reasonable efforts to work with Customer to export such Customer Data.

**Trial Service Specific Terms for Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Finance and
Operations, Enterprise edition**

These terms supplement the applicable terms in Part I above.

**1. Trial Period.** Subject to Section 2, Customer may use this Trial Service
for a period of 30 days from the date when Customer is first given access to it,
solely with demonstration data provided by Microsoft or Customer through
Customer’s use of this Trial Service, until the Agreement or Customer’s right to
access this Trial Service is terminated. If Customer has included “live” or
production Customer Data in its instance of this Trial Service, Microsoft will
delete such data as set forth in Section 5.5 of Part I above.

**2. Termination.** Without limiting the generality of Section 5.2 of Part I,
Microsoft may terminate Customer’s access to this Trial Service at any time if
Customer fails to access and actively use this Trial Service for any period of 7
consecutive days.

**Trial Service Specific Terms for Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Retail**

These terms supplement the applicable terms in Part I above.

**1. Trial Period.** Subject to Section 2, Customer may use this Trial Service
for a period of 30 days from the date when Customer is first given access to it,
solely with demonstration data provided by Microsoft or Customer through
Customer’s use of this Trial Service, until the Agreement or Customer’s right to
access this Trial Service is terminated. If Customer has included “live” or
production Customer Data in its instance of this Trial Service, Microsoft will
delete such data as set forth in Section 5.5 of Part I above.

**2. Termination.** Without limiting the generality of Section 5.2 of Part I,
Microsoft may terminate Customer’s access to this Trial Service at any time if
Customer fails to access and actively use this Trial Service for any period of 7
consecutive days.

**Trial Service Specific Terms for Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Talent**

These terms supplement the applicable terms in Part I above.

**1. Trial Period.** Subject to Section 2, Customer may use this Trial Service
for a period of 60 days from the date when Customer is first given access to it,
solely with demonstration data provided by Microsoft or Customer through
Customer’s use of this Trial Service, until the Agreement or Customer’s right to
access this Trial Service is terminated. If Customer has included “live” or
production Customer Data in its instance of this Trial Service, Microsoft will
delete such data as set forth in Section 5.5 of Part I above.

**Trial Service Specific Terms for Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Talent: Attract
(“Attract”), and Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Talent: Onboard (“Onboard”)**

These terms supplement the applicable terms in Part I above.

**1. Trial Period.** Each of the Attract and Onboard modules is a separate Trial
Service and, if used by any Customer personnel, is subject to a separate trial
period (which may, in whole or in part, run concurrently depending on when such
personnel first accesses each Trial Service). Subject to Section 2, each of
Customer’s personnel may use each of these Trial Services for a period of 60
days from the date when such person is first given access to it, solely with
demonstration data provided by Microsoft or Customer through Customer’s use of
this Trial Service or with “live” or production Customer Data. If Customer has
included “live” or production Customer Data in its instance of these Trial
Services, Microsoft will delete such data as set forth in Section 5.5 of Part I
above, with the following caveat: Customer acknowledges that these Trial
Services store data in Microsoft’s Common Data Service (or any successor). If
Customer’s Organization uses multiple Microsoft online services that implement
Microsoft’s Common Data Service, data may be retained in the Common Data Service
until all personnel in Customer’s Organization terminate all subscriptions for
all such online services that implement the Common Data Service.

**2. Purchase.** Each of Customer’s personnel using the Trial Service
acknowledges that, as an individual, he or she is not eligible to purchase a
commercial subscription to these Trial Services. Customer’s Organization,
however, may purchase subscriptions on behalf of each such individual user,
under a separate applicable commercial agreement between Customer’s Organization
and Microsoft (“**Commercial Agreement**”). Currently, the only available
Commercial Agreement is the Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement, although
Microsoft may enable purchases through other channels in the future. Customer’s
Organization may purchase such subscriptions for its personnel even if no Admin
has assumed control over that Organization, as long as such Organization has an
unexpired Commercial Agreement at the time of such purchase. Personnel using
these Trial Services acknowledge that they must work with appropriate purchasing
agents within Customer’s Organization to purchase commercial subscriptions to
the Trial Services, and that any such purchase may also be subject to Customer’s
Organization’s internal purchasing policies, and will therefore moderate their
use of the Trial Services accordingly.

**3. Exporting Customer Data.** If Customer has included “live” or production
Customer Data in any of these Trial Services, and Customer elects not to
purchase a subscription to the Attract or Onboard modules, as applicable, before
expiration of the applicable Trial Period, then, subject to the last sentence of
Section 1 of the Trial Service Specific Terms for these modules: **(A)**
Microsoft has no obligation to return Customer Data to Customer; **(B)**
Microsoft will retain such Customer Data for at least 30 days after the
expiration of the applicable Trial Period for that Trial Service; and **(C)**
Microsoft will make commercially reasonable efforts to work with Customer to
export such Customer Data.

**Trial Service Specific Terms for Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Sales, Marketing,
Customer Service, Field Service, and Project Service Automation**

These terms supplement the applicable terms in Part I above.

**1. Trial Period.** Except for Dynamics 365 for Marketing, which only allows
one trial per Customer Organization, there may be up to five concurrent trials
of the Trial Service at any given time for Customer’s Organization (each, a
“**Trial Instance**”), and each such Trial Instance will remain accessible for a
30-day period beginning on the date when the first user of a given Trial
Instance is first given access to it (“**Trial Instance Effective Date**”) until
the date that is 30 days after such Trial Instance Effective Date (each, a
“**Trial Period**”), subject to earlier termination as provided in Part I above
or otherwise in these Trial Service Specific Terms for this Trial Service. Any
given user in Customer’s Organization who wants to gain access to this Trial
Service may either create a new Trial Instance (if one is then available,
subject to the foregoing limit on concurrent Trial Instances), in which case the
Trial Period applicable to that user is 30 days, or may join any of the
then-existing Trial Instances for Customer’s Organization, in which case the
Trial Period applicable to that user is the remainder of the 30-day period that
began on the Trial Instance Effective Date for that Trial Instance. When the
Trial Period for any given Trial Instance expires, that Trial Instance may be
made available to Customer to export data in accordance with Section 5 of the
Trial Service Specific Terms for this Trial Service, after which that Trial
Instance will be deleted and Customer may create a new Trial Instance in its
place (subject to the foregoing limit on concurrent Trial Instances).

**2. Termination.** Without limiting the generality of Section 5.2 of Part I,
Microsoft may terminate Customer’s access to this Trial Service through a given
Trial Instance at any time if Customer fails to access and actively use this
Trial Service through such Trial Instance for any period of 7 consecutive days
(and Microsoft may terminate Customer’s access to this Trial Service through all
Trial Instances at any time if Customer fails to access and actively use this
Trial Service through all such Trial Instance for any period of 7 consecutive
days).

**3. Admin.** Notwithstanding anything in Section 2 of Part I to the contrary,
as applicable to this Trial Service and solely to the extent there is not
already an Admin associated with Customer’s Organization, the Admin is deemed to
be the first user in Customer’s Organization who creates a Trial Instance,
subject to later change by anyone authorized to act on behalf of that
Organization who demonstrates administrative control over the Domain associated
with the email for that Organization sufficient to manage the Domain records.

**4. Privacy.** Notwithstanding anything in Section 7 of Part I to the contrary,
Customer acknowledges (and will inform all users in Customer’s Domain) that:
**(A)** the Admin will control all Trial Instances within Customer’s Domain and
will manage and have access to all Customer Data within all such Trial
Instances; **(B)** all users in Customer’s Domain, when reviewing existing Trial
Instances such user may want to join, will have access to certain Customer Data
for each such Trial Instance (including the existence of such Trial Instance,
the identity and certain personal information of all then-current users
participating in such Trial Instance, and the name chosen for Trial instance);
and **(C)** all users in Customer’s Domain participating in a given Trial
Instance will have access to all Customer Data input into that Trial Instance,
without regard to which user input such Customer Data.

**5. Exporting Customer Data.** If Customer has included “live” or production
Customer Data in any Trial Instance of this Trial Service, and Customer elects
not to purchase a subscription to the Microsoft Dynamics 365 for Sales service,
Customer Service, Field Service, or Project Service Automation service before
expiration of the Trial Period for that Trial Instance: **(A)** Microsoft has no
obligation to return Customer Data to Customer; **(B)** Microsoft will retain
such Customer Data for at least 7 days after the expiration of the applicable
Trial Period for that Trial Instance; and **(C)** Microsoft will make
commercially reasonable efforts to work with Customer to export such Customer
Data.

**6. Compliance with Applicable Laws.** Customer shall, as a condition of using
the “Dynamics 365 for Marketing” online service, comply with all applicable laws
and regulations governing Customer’s dissemination of any promotional materials
through its use of the “Dynamics 365 for Marketing” online service. Microsoft
bears no responsibility for Customer’s compliance with any such applicable laws
or regulations.

**7. Defense of Claims & Damages.** Customer agrees that Customer and/or
Customer’s Organization will defend Microsoft against all third party claims
arising out of, or in connection with, (i) Customer’s use of the Trial Service
in a manner that is prohibited by this Agreement, and/or, (ii) any privacy
violation or spam alleged to have been committed or sent by Customer through
your use of the Trial Service. Customer agrees that Microsoft has the right to
seek and recover all of its damages caused by Customer through Customer’s use
the Trial Service for unlawful purposes, in an unlawful manner, or in a manner
that violates Microsoft’s acceptable use, and/or anti-spam policies. The terms
of this section shall survive the termination of Customer’s relationship with
Microsoft. For the avoidance of doubt, any damages arising from the obligations
imposed on Customer by these Trial Service Specific Terms are not subject any
exclusion or cap on Customer’s liability that may be included in Part I of this
Agreement.
