---
title: "Configure AI topic clustering for conversations | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Configure topic cLustering for conversations using AI"
author: meghanalanka
ms.author: v-mlanka
manager: shujoshi
ms.date: 10/22/2020
ms.topic: article
ms.service: "dynamics-365-customerservice"
---

# Configure AI topic clustering for conversations

Customer Service Insights uses AI to give you insights into your customer service data by grouping semantically related conversations and generating a topic. New incoming conversations that match this topic will be automatically added to the topic group. This can help you identify areas for improvement that can have the greatest impact on system performance.

The AI-driven technology empowers informed decision-making about how to improve resolution rates, reduce wait times, and decrease customer service costs. You can use case resolution insights, backlog trends, and historical comparisons to evaluate agent performance and business impact, and address inefficiencies in your system.

## Enable topic clustering for conversations

Topic clustering is enabled by default when you enable historical analytics. To enable historical analytics, see [Configure Omnichannel historical analytics reports](oc-historical-analytics-reports.md)

## Summary and Model Run Summary Views

The Summary and Model Run Summary views provide key information about how the topic model is operating.

| View | Description |
| -------- | ----------------------- |
| Status | Whether the feature is enabled or not. |
| Topic generated | Total number of topics generated by the model. |
| Conversations assigned to a topic | The percentage of conversations that were considered for topic generation and classified to a topic. |
| Last successful run | Time stamp of the last time new cases were processed. |
| Run frequency | The cadence in which cases are processed and tagged with topics. |

## Automate topics to Power Virtual Agents bots

AI discovered topics in Omnichannel Historical Analytics are often prime candidates as topics for automation in Power Virtual Agents bots. If Power Virtual Agents is available in the region that your Customer Service organization is in, the feature can be enabled by selecting the **Enable** toggle and selecting **Save**.

> [!NOTE]
> Topic automation to PVA bot is not currently available in GCC.

## Language availability for topics

The topics capability in the Omnichannel historical analytics reports comes with a natural language understanding model that can understand the text semantics and intent in the following languages:

-English
- French
- German 
- Italian
- Japanese
- Portugese
- Simplified Chinese
- Spanish