---
title: Apply authentication for search providers 
description: Learn how to apply authentication for search providers.
author: Soumyasd27
ms.author: sdas
ms.reviewer: shujoshi
ms.service: dynamics-365 
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/01/2023
ms.custom: bap-template
---

# Apply authentication for search providers (preview)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> [!INCLUDE[cc-preview-feature](../includes/cc-preview-feature.md)]
>
> [!INCLUDE[cc-preview-features-definition](../includes/cc-preview-features-definition.md)]
>
> [!INCLUDE[cc-preview-features-expect-changes](../includes/cc-preview-features-expect-changes.md)]
>
> [!INCLUDE[cc-preview-features-no-ms-support](../includes/cc-preview-features-no-ms-support.md)]
>

Use the following information to apply authentication as required by your organization.

- **None**: Requires no authentication.
- **OAuth 2.0**: OAuth 2.0 with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) requires a resource ID, Client ID, and a client Secret. OAuth 2.0 only works with Cloud mode.

## OAuth 2.0

> [!NOTE]
> The resource ID, client ID, and client secret values will depend on how you did the setup for Azure AD based authentication for your website.

### Scenario 1

If you're using an application both as an identity provider and the client app to access the website, the client ID and the resource ID will be the application ID of the app, and the client secret will be the secret that you generated in the app.

After the client app is configured, make sure you create a new client secret by going to the **Certificates & Secrets** section of the app.

Perform the following steps:

1. In the **Branding and Properties** tab, provide the information for the **Home page URL** field.
:::image type="content" source="media/homepageurl.png" alt-text="Provide URL for the home page":::
1. In the **Authentication** tab, select **Add a platform**. On the **Configure platforms** dialog, select **Web**.
1. Enter the information in the **Redirect URIs** field.
1. Select the **ID tokens (used for implicit and hybrid flows)** checkbox.
1. Select **Configure**.

     :::image type="content" source="media/configure-web_new.png" alt-text="Add the platform as web":::
    > [!NOTE]
    > It isn’t required to have the above specified route for Redirect URI in your website. Only if you use the user token sent by Azure in your website for authentication you will need to have the route
1. In the **Overview** tab, copy the Application (client) ID.

   :::image type="content" source="media/client_id.png" alt-text="Add the client ID":::
1. In the **Certificates and secrets** tab, either use the client secret provided in the **Generated by App Service** field or create a new one by selecting the **New client secret** option.
1. If you select the **New client secret** option, the **Add a client secret** dialog appears. Provide a **Description** and set an expiration in the **Expires** field.
1. Select **Add**.

    :::image type="content" source="media/add-a-client-secret.png" alt-text="Add a client secret":::

### Scenario 2

If you're using an application as identity provider for your website as the resource, and a different application to access the website, the client ID will be the application ID of your second app and the client secret will be the secret configured in the second app. However, the resource ID will be the ID of your first app.

## Next steps

For more information on adding integrated search providers, go to [Manage integrated search providers (preview)](add-search-provider.md#manage-integrated-search-providers-preview)
