ce/customer-service/configure-bot-virtual-agent.md, before:

---
title: "Integrate a bot | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Instructions to integrate a bot in Omnichannel for Customer Service."
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
manager: shujoshi 
ms.date: 03/24/2021 
ms.topic: article
ms.service: dynamics-365-customerservice
ms.reviewer: nenellim
---

# Integrate a Power Virtual Agents bot

[!INCLUDE[cc-data-platform-banner](../includes/cc-data-platform-banner.md)]

[!INCLUDE[cc-use-with-omnichannel](../includes/cc-use-with-omnichannel.md)]

Microsoft Power Virtual Agents allows organizations to automate routine conversations, letting agents focus on high-value interactions. When a conversation is escalated from a bot to a human agent, agents can see the full transcript of bot conversations and have complete context while engaging with customers.

After you have created your bot and connected it to an Omnichannel for Customer Service environment, you can go to the Omnichannel Administration app in order to add your bot to queues and configure context variables to route chat sessions to queues.

When you integrate a Power Virtual Agents bot with Omnichannel for Customer Service, you get the following capabilities for bot conversations:

- Seamlessly integrate your bot with all channels without needing to add channel-specific code in the bot.
- Transfer bot conversations to human agents, and include the full context of the conversation.
- Analyze the bot transcript that's available in Microsoft Dataverse after the chat is completed.
- Configure routing rules to selectively route incoming requests to bots based on context, such as issue type or customer type. For example, you can route low-complexity issues to bots, or route the conversation to a sales or support bot based on the webpage browsing history of the customer.
- Monitor the bot conversations in real time by using the supervisor dashboard, which includes details such as customer sentiment.
- Use the historical dashboards to get insights into the effectiveness of the bots through metrics, such as resolution rate, escalation rate, resolution time, escalation time, and average sentiment.

## Prerequisites

- Product licenses - You need a product license for Power Virtual Agents ([start a trial](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=2092080&clcid=0x409)) and Omnichannel for Customer service ([learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/dynamics365/customer-engagement/omnichannel/try-chat-for-dynamics365)).
- Role - In order to successfully complete these steps, the signed-in user must be an Omnichannel Administrator. [Learn more about managing and assigning user roles in Omnichannel](add-users-assign-roles.md).
- Azure Application ID - You will need an application registered in Azure prior to connecting to Omnichannel for Customer Service. [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#create-an-azure-active-directory-application)
- Bot - You must have a preconfigured bot that can integrate with Omnichannel for Customer Service. For more information, see [Configure seamless and contextual hand-off to Omnichannel for Customer Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/dynamics365/ai/customer-service-virtual-agent/configuration-hand-off-omnichannel).
- Chat widget - You must have a preconfigured chat widget to enable the bot to communicate with end users. For more information, see [Add a chat widget](add-chat-widget.md).

## Configure your Power Virtual Agents bot

After the Power Virtual Agents bot is created and configured to work with Omnichannel for Customer Service, you can configure it to hand off conversations to queues in the Omnichannel Administration app. To receive incoming messages, you must add the bot to at least one queue. The bot will use the routing rules that were created at setup. You can change them in the **Work Streams** section of Omnichannel.

> [!NOTE]
> A bot can escalate conversations to agents only if they are a part of push-based work stream.

### Set up your Power Virtual Agents bot

1. Connect the bot to Omnichannel for Customer Service and go to the Omnichannel Administration app. For more information, see [Configure seamless and contextual hand-off to Omnichannel for Customer Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/dynamics365/ai/customer-service-virtual-agent/configuration-hand-off-omnichannel).

    ![Power Virtual Agents bot settings](media/virtual-agent-bot-settings.png "Power Virtual Agents bot settings")

    The bot will appear in Omnichannel for Customer Service.

2. Assign the bot to an existing queue.

    ![Virtual Agent bot select queue](media/virtual-agent-bot-select-queues.png)

3. Click **Done**. Now you're on the bot profile page and you can see that your bot is connected.

    ![Virtual Agent bot profile page](media/virtual-agent-bot-profile.png)

    Your bot is ready to accept and respond to customer-initiated conversations.

 4. Set escalation rules so the bot can route the queries to the appropriate agent. You can set up escalation rules in one of the following ways:

    - **Add the bot to an existing human agent queue:**	If you add the bot to an existing human agent queue, you don’t need to change your existing routing rule. Existing routing rules will send incoming messages to the Power Virtual Agents. When a handoff is triggered, customers will be transferred from the Power Virtual Agents to the human agent according to the escalation routing rules.

    - **Create a bot queue and a human agent queue:** If you create two queues, you must create work streams that contain context variables and appropriate routing rules to route the customer queries.

For information about working with queues, see [Work with queues in Omnichannel for Customer Service](queues-omnichannel.md).

### Create a bot queue and a human agent queue

1. Select or create a work stream. For more information about work streams, see [Understand and create work streams](work-streams-introduction.md).

![Virtual Agent work streams](media/virtual-agent-work-streams.png)

2. Create context variables.

You must use the context variables that were created during setup for the bot to handle the customer queries appropriately. The context variable is used in routing the incoming customer queries to the appropriate bots and agents. For information about context variables, see [Contextual variables available upon hand-off](https://docs.microsoft.com/dynamics365/ai/customer-service-virtual-agent/how-to-handoff#contextual-variables-available-upon-hand-off).

   > [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
   > ![Virtual Agent work stream context variable](media/virtual-agent-work-stream-context-variables.png "Virtual Agent work stream context variable")

3. Create a routing rule for the human agent and add it to the work stream.

    > [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
    > ![Virtual Agent work stream routing rules](media/virtual-agent-work-stream-routing-rule.png "Virtual Agent work stream routing rules")

4. Create a routing rule for the virtual agent and add it to the work stream.

    > [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
    > ![Virtual Agent work stream bot routing rules](media/virtual-agent-work-stream-routing-rule-bot.png "Virtual Agent work stream bot routing rules")

Routing rules route the incoming customer queries to their respective queues. Each routing rule has a condition and a destination queue. If the condition is evaluated as true, the customer query is routed to the destination queue. For bots, the condition is built by using the context variable.

Bots are developed to receive customer queries first, gain information of the query, and then pass the query to a human agent, if required. To achieve this behavior, you must add a bot user to the queue and configure routing rules in a way that the incoming customer queries are routed to the queue with bot user.

Ensure to map the routing rules to the correct queues so that the queries are routed appropriately. For information about routing rules, see [Create and manage routing rules](routing-rules.md).

> [!NOTE]
> When you run a report on Power Virtual Agent activity, the number of bot sessions may differ from the number of sessions in Omnichannel for Customer Service.

## Enable a human agent to transfer a conversation back to a bot

The previous section explained how to configure a single conversation transfer from a Power Virtual Agents bot to a human agent. Some support scenarios may require a human agent to transfer a conversation back to a Power Virtual Agents bot after delivering personalized support. This second transfer from human agent to bot may be used to provide further assistance with basic, repetitive tasks or to collect additional data, for example, in a customer survey.

You can facilitate a human agent transfer of a conversation back to a bot in one of the following ways:

- Create two bots that reside in two queues
- Create two bots that reside in the same queue

### Two bots in two queues

In this scenario, a bot has transferred a conversation to a human agent. The human agent will transfer the conversation again to another bot in another queue.

1. A customer initiates a conversation.
2. The conversation is routed to Queue 1.
3. The first bot (Bot A) accepts the conversation.
4. The customer requests to chat with a human agent.
5. The conversation is transferred to a human agent within Queue 1.
6. The customer converses with the human agent.
7. The human is finished delivering support and wants to hand off the conversation to a second bot (Bot B), which resides in Queue 2.
8. The human agent is disconnected from the conversation.
9. The conversation routed to Bot B in Queue 2.
10.	The system triggers Bot B to send a greeting message.
11. The customer now converses with Bot B.

### Two bots in one queue

In this scenario, after a bot has transferred a conversation to a human agent, the agent will transfer the conversation to another bot in the same queue when the agent's task is over. For the conversation to flow correctly, you must set the first bot (Bot A) with the highest capacity, the human agent with second-highest capacity, and the second bot (Bot B) with the lowest capacity.

1. A customer initiates a conversation that is routed to a queue.
2. The first bot (Bot A) that has the highest capacity accepts the conversation.
3. The customer requests to chat with a human agent.
4. The conversation is transferred to a human agent, as the agent has second-highest capacity.
5. The customer converses with the human agent.
6. The human agent has finished delivering support and wants to hand off the conversation to a second bot (Bot B), which resides in the same queue.
7. The human agent is disconnected from the conversation, and the conversation is routed to Bot B.
8. Bot B receives the messages in the following order:
    - A conversation update that the “Bot added”
    - The Omnichannel Set context event
9. The system triggers Bot B to send a greeting message.
10. The customer now converses with Bot B.

## Configure context variables for the bot

When customers initiate a conversation, the relevant context that is related to the customer, the issue they are facing, and recent activities performed by them can be made available for the bot to intelligently provide contextual responses to resolve customer issues in a quick and efficient manner. For example, the bot can use the signed-in user details to look up the recent case information or order history of the customer and provide a response. Similarly, the pre-conversation information, custom context, or recent pages browsed on a website by the customer can be passed on to the bot by configuring context variables for the bot in Power Virtual Agents.  Context variables set by the bot can also be passed to Omnichannel for Customer Service when the bot escalates to the human agent. For example, you can pass the ticketnumber for the case created by the bot to Omnichannel for Customer Service to link the case and load the customer summary for the agent to view.

For information on the context variables that can be configured, see [Context variables for bots](context-variables-for-bot.md).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ensure the following:
>
> - Names are not changed and used as is when you author flows.
> - The value that will be passed to the context variable doesn't exceed 4,000 characters so that the conversation can be successfully escalated to the agent.

In Power Virtual Agents, do the following:

1. On the **Topics** page, select **New topic**.
2. On the **Setup** tab, enter a name and description, and save the topic.
3. Select **Go to authoring canvas**.
4. Select **Add node**, choose the **Ask a question** action.
5. Edit the **Identify** field, and in the **Choose information to identify** dialog box, select an option that will match the context variable data type. For information on the data type mapping, see the information in the table in [context variables](context-variables-for-bot.md).
6. Edit **Save response as**, and in the **Variable Properties** dialog box, update the value for **Name** with the required Omnichannel for Customer Service context variable. Make sure **Bot (any topic can access)** and **External sources can set values** are selected. The **External sources can set values** option is applicable only for getting the context variable. 
    > ![Configure context variable in a topic](media/Configure-bot-context-variable.png "Configure context variable in a topic")

8. Save and publish the changes.

At run time, the required information is captured in the context variable that can then be used for further actions based on the workflow you configure. The bot can set the information for the context variables to link the conversation and case when the bot escalates the conversation to an agent. More information: [Link customer and case to a conversation](link-customer-case-when-bot-escalates.md).

You can also configure the **Transfer to agent** node in the Power Virtual Agents topic to send a private message with relevant context variables to the live agent during the escalation.

The global variables that are created in Power Virtual Agents can be passed to Omnichannel for Customer Service when a conversation is escalated. For the complete list, see [Contextual variables available upon hand off](/power-virtual-agents/advanced-hand-off#contextual-variables-available-upon-hand-off)

### Known limitations

| Description     | Limitation     |
|-----------------|----------------|
| **Greeting topic context**  | The greeting topic for Power Virtual Agents doesn't have Omnichannel for Customer Service context available.  |
| **Adaptive cards:** An adaptive card is a customizable card that can contain any combination of text, speech, images, buttons, and input fields.|<ul><li>	Power Virtual Agents supports adaptive cards for CSAT surveys and they will display text only. For more information, see the [Channel experience reference table](https://docs.microsoft.com/power-virtual-agents/publication-fundamentals-publish-channels#channel-experience-reference-table). </li><li> You can build an adaptive card by adding a skill through Power Virtual Agents. For more information, see [Use Microsoft Bot Framework Skills in Power Virtual Agents](https://docs.microsoft.com/power-virtual-agents/advanced-use-skills). </li><li> Adaptive card styling is not supported.</li></ul> |
| **Single sign-on (SSO):** Chatbots can sign the user in if they're in to the page where the bot is deployed. | SSO is not supported. |
| **Typing:** A bot receives a typing activity to indicate that the user is typing a response. A bot may send a typing activity to indicate to the user that it is working to fulfill a request or compile a response. | Typing indicators will not appear. |
| **Suggested actions:** Suggested actions enable your bot to present buttons that the user can tap to provide input. Suggested actions appear close to the composer and enhance user experience. They enable the user to answer a question or make a selection with a tap of a button, rather than having to type a response with a keyboard. | <ul><li>It cannot be displayed vertically.</li><li> Is not supported in the Microsoft Teams channel.</li></ul> |
| **Format bot messages:** You can set the optional TextFormat property to control how your message's text content is rendered. | <ul><li> Power Virtual Agents does not support markdown with images and text. </li> <li>When Power Virtual Agents sends markdown text, there is extra space between lines. </li><li>Carousel layout is not supported.</li></ul> |
| **File attachments:** After file attachments are enabled in Omnichannel for Customer Service, customers can send file attachments. | Power Virtual Agents cannot operate on Omnichannel for Customer Service file attachments. |
|||

## Privacy notice

You understand that your data may be transmitted and shared with external systems and that your data may flow outside of your organization's compliance boundary (even if your organization is in a Government Cloud environment). For example, your messages will be shared with the bot which could be interacting with a third-party system based on the integration done by you. For more information on how we process your data, see [Microsoft Privacy Statement](https://privacy.microsoft.com/privacystatement).

### Troubleshoot issues for bots

[How to end a bot conversation in Omnichannel for Customer Service](troubleshoot-omnichannel-customer-service.md#pvaendconv) 

### Videos

[Power Virtual Agents integration with Omnichannel for Customer Service](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2114716)

To view more videos on Omnichannel for Customer Service, see [Videos](videos.md).

### See also

[Understand and create work streams](work-streams-introduction.md)  
[Work with queues in Omnichannel for Customer Service](queues-omnichannel.md)  
[Create and manage routing rules](routing-rules.md)  
[Add a chat widget](add-chat-widget.md)  
[Enable a bot to escalate and end conversation](bot-escalate-end-conversation.md)  
[Create and edit topics in Power Virtual Agents bot](https://docs.microsoft.com/power-virtual-agents/authoring-create-edit-topics)  

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

enable a bot to end convos section added

ce/customer-service/configure-bot-virtual-agent.md, after:

---
title: "Integrate a bot | MicrosoftDocs"
description: "Instructions to integrate a bot in Omnichannel for Customer Service."
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
manager: shujoshi 
ms.date: 03/24/2021 
ms.topic: article
ms.service: dynamics-365-customerservice
ms.reviewer: nenellim
---

# Integrate a Power Virtual Agents bot

[!INCLUDE[cc-data-platform-banner](../includes/cc-data-platform-banner.md)]

[!INCLUDE[cc-use-with-omnichannel](../includes/cc-use-with-omnichannel.md)]

Microsoft Power Virtual Agents allows organizations to automate routine conversations, letting agents focus on high-value interactions. When a conversation is escalated from a bot to a human agent, agents can see the full transcript of bot conversations and have complete context while engaging with customers.

After you have created your bot and connected it to an Omnichannel for Customer Service environment, you can go to the Omnichannel Administration app in order to add your bot to queues and configure context variables to route chat sessions to queues.

When you integrate a Power Virtual Agents bot with Omnichannel for Customer Service, you get the following capabilities for bot conversations:

- Seamlessly integrate your bot with all channels without needing to add channel-specific code in the bot.
- Transfer bot conversations to human agents, and include the full context of the conversation.
- Analyze the bot transcript that's available in Microsoft Dataverse after the chat is completed.
- Configure routing rules to selectively route incoming requests to bots based on context, such as issue type or customer type. For example, you can route low-complexity issues to bots, or route the conversation to a sales or support bot based on the webpage browsing history of the customer.
- Monitor the bot conversations in real time by using the supervisor dashboard, which includes details such as customer sentiment.
- Use the historical dashboards to get insights into the effectiveness of the bots through metrics, such as resolution rate, escalation rate, resolution time, escalation time, and average sentiment.

## Prerequisites

- Product licenses - You need a product license for Power Virtual Agents ([start a trial](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=2092080&clcid=0x409)) and Omnichannel for Customer service ([learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/dynamics365/customer-engagement/omnichannel/try-chat-for-dynamics365)).
- Role - In order to successfully complete these steps, the signed-in user must be an Omnichannel Administrator. [Learn more about managing and assigning user roles in Omnichannel](add-users-assign-roles.md).
- Azure Application ID - You will need an application registered in Azure prior to connecting to Omnichannel for Customer Service. [Learn more](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#create-an-azure-active-directory-application)
- Bot - You must have a preconfigured bot that can integrate with Omnichannel for Customer Service. For more information, see [Configure seamless and contextual hand-off to Omnichannel for Customer Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/dynamics365/ai/customer-service-virtual-agent/configuration-hand-off-omnichannel).
- Chat widget - You must have a preconfigured chat widget to enable the bot to communicate with end users. For more information, see [Add a chat widget](add-chat-widget.md).

## Configure your Power Virtual Agents bot

After the Power Virtual Agents bot is created and configured to work with Omnichannel for Customer Service, you can configure it to hand off conversations to queues in the Omnichannel Administration app. To receive incoming messages, you must add the bot to at least one queue. The bot will use the routing rules that were created at setup. You can change them in the **Work Streams** section of Omnichannel.

> [!NOTE]
> A bot can escalate conversations to agents only if they are a part of push-based work stream.

### Set up your Power Virtual Agents bot

1. Connect the bot to Omnichannel for Customer Service and go to the Omnichannel Administration app. For more information, see [Configure seamless and contextual hand-off to Omnichannel for Customer Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/dynamics365/ai/customer-service-virtual-agent/configuration-hand-off-omnichannel).

    ![Power Virtual Agents bot settings](media/virtual-agent-bot-settings.png "Power Virtual Agents bot settings")

    The bot will appear in Omnichannel for Customer Service.

2. Assign the bot to an existing queue.

    ![Virtual Agent bot select queue](media/virtual-agent-bot-select-queues.png)

3. Click **Done**. Now you're on the bot profile page and you can see that your bot is connected.

    ![Virtual Agent bot profile page](media/virtual-agent-bot-profile.png)

    Your bot is ready to accept and respond to customer-initiated conversations.

 4. Set escalation rules so the bot can route the queries to the appropriate agent. You can set up escalation rules in one of the following ways:

    - **Add the bot to an existing human agent queue:**	If you add the bot to an existing human agent queue, you don’t need to change your existing routing rule. Existing routing rules will send incoming messages to the Power Virtual Agents. When a handoff is triggered, customers will be transferred from the Power Virtual Agents to the human agent according to the escalation routing rules.

    - **Create a bot queue and a human agent queue:** If you create two queues, you must create work streams that contain context variables and appropriate routing rules to route the customer queries.

For information about working with queues, see [Work with queues in Omnichannel for Customer Service](queues-omnichannel.md).

### Create a bot queue and a human agent queue

1. Select or create a work stream. For more information about work streams, see [Understand and create work streams](work-streams-introduction.md).

![Virtual Agent work streams](media/virtual-agent-work-streams.png)

2. Create context variables.

You must use the context variables that were created during setup for the bot to handle the customer queries appropriately. The context variable is used in routing the incoming customer queries to the appropriate bots and agents. For information about context variables, see [Contextual variables available upon hand-off](https://docs.microsoft.com/dynamics365/ai/customer-service-virtual-agent/how-to-handoff#contextual-variables-available-upon-hand-off).

   > [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
   > ![Virtual Agent work stream context variable](media/virtual-agent-work-stream-context-variables.png "Virtual Agent work stream context variable")

3. Create a routing rule for the human agent and add it to the work stream.

    > [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
    > ![Virtual Agent work stream routing rules](media/virtual-agent-work-stream-routing-rule.png "Virtual Agent work stream routing rules")

4. Create a routing rule for the virtual agent and add it to the work stream.

    > [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
    > ![Virtual Agent work stream bot routing rules](media/virtual-agent-work-stream-routing-rule-bot.png "Virtual Agent work stream bot routing rules")

Routing rules route the incoming customer queries to their respective queues. Each routing rule has a condition and a destination queue. If the condition is evaluated as true, the customer query is routed to the destination queue. For bots, the condition is built by using the context variable.

Bots are developed to receive customer queries first, gain information of the query, and then pass the query to a human agent, if required. To achieve this behavior, you must add a bot user to the queue and configure routing rules in a way that the incoming customer queries are routed to the queue with bot user.

Ensure to map the routing rules to the correct queues so that the queries are routed appropriately. For information about routing rules, see [Create and manage routing rules](routing-rules.md).

> [!NOTE]
> When you run a report on Power Virtual Agent activity, the number of bot sessions may differ from the number of sessions in Omnichannel for Customer Service.

## Enable a human agent to transfer a conversation back to a bot

The previous section explained how to configure a single conversation transfer from a Power Virtual Agents bot to a human agent. Some support scenarios may require a human agent to transfer a conversation back to a Power Virtual Agents bot after delivering personalized support. This second transfer from human agent to bot may be used to provide further assistance with basic, repetitive tasks or to collect additional data, for example, in a customer survey.

You can facilitate a human agent transfer of a conversation back to a bot in one of the following ways:

- Create two bots that reside in two queues
- Create two bots that reside in the same queue

### Two bots in two queues

In this scenario, a bot has transferred a conversation to a human agent. The human agent will transfer the conversation again to another bot in another queue.

1. A customer initiates a conversation.
2. The conversation is routed to Queue 1.
3. The first bot (Bot A) accepts the conversation.
4. The customer requests to chat with a human agent.
5. The conversation is transferred to a human agent within Queue 1.
6. The customer converses with the human agent.
7. The human is finished delivering support and wants to hand off the conversation to a second bot (Bot B), which resides in Queue 2.
8. The human agent is disconnected from the conversation.
9. The conversation routed to Bot B in Queue 2.
10.	The system triggers Bot B to send a greeting message.
11. The customer now converses with Bot B.

### Two bots in one queue

In this scenario, after a bot has transferred a conversation to a human agent, the agent will transfer the conversation to another bot in the same queue when the agent's task is over. For the conversation to flow correctly, you must set the first bot (Bot A) with the highest capacity, the human agent with second-highest capacity, and the second bot (Bot B) with the lowest capacity.

1. A customer initiates a conversation that is routed to a queue.
2. The first bot (Bot A) that has the highest capacity accepts the conversation.
3. The customer requests to chat with a human agent.
4. The conversation is transferred to a human agent, as the agent has second-highest capacity.
5. The customer converses with the human agent.
6. The human agent has finished delivering support and wants to hand off the conversation to a second bot (Bot B), which resides in the same queue.
7. The human agent is disconnected from the conversation, and the conversation is routed to Bot B.
8. Bot B receives the messages in the following order:
    - A conversation update that the “Bot added”
    - The Omnichannel Set context event
9. The system triggers Bot B to send a greeting message.
10. The customer now converses with Bot B.

## Configure context variables for the bot

When customers initiate a conversation, the relevant context that is related to the customer, the issue they are facing, and recent activities performed by them can be made available for the bot to intelligently provide contextual responses to resolve customer issues in a quick and efficient manner. For example, the bot can use the signed-in user details to look up the recent case information or order history of the customer and provide a response. Similarly, the pre-conversation information, custom context, or recent pages browsed on a website by the customer can be passed on to the bot by configuring context variables for the bot in Power Virtual Agents.  Context variables set by the bot can also be passed to Omnichannel for Customer Service when the bot escalates to the human agent. For example, you can pass the ticketnumber for the case created by the bot to Omnichannel for Customer Service to link the case and load the customer summary for the agent to view.

For information on the context variables that can be configured, see [Context variables for bots](context-variables-for-bot.md).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ensure the following:
>
> - Names are not changed and used as is when you author flows.
> - The value that will be passed to the context variable doesn't exceed 4,000 characters so that the conversation can be successfully escalated to the agent.

In Power Virtual Agents, do the following:

1. On the **Topics** page, select **New topic**.
2. On the **Setup** tab, enter a name and description, and save the topic.
3. Select **Go to authoring canvas**.
4. Select **Add node**, choose the **Ask a question** action.
5. Edit the **Identify** field, and in the **Choose information to identify** dialog box, select an option that will match the context variable data type. For information on the data type mapping, see the information in the table in [context variables](context-variables-for-bot.md).
6. Edit **Save response as**, and in the **Variable Properties** dialog box, update the value for **Name** with the required Omnichannel for Customer Service context variable. Make sure **Bot (any topic can access)** and **External sources can set values** are selected. The **External sources can set values** option is applicable only for getting the context variable. 
    > ![Configure context variable in a topic](media/Configure-bot-context-variable.png "Configure context variable in a topic")

8. Save and publish the changes.

At run time, the required information is captured in the context variable that can then be used for further actions based on the workflow you configure. The bot can set the information for the context variables to link the conversation and case when the bot escalates the conversation to an agent. More information: [Link customer and case to a conversation](link-customer-case-when-bot-escalates.md).

You can also configure the **Transfer to agent** node in the Power Virtual Agents topic to send a private message with relevant context variables to the live agent during the escalation.

The global variables that are created in Power Virtual Agents can be passed to Omnichannel for Customer Service when a conversation is escalated. For the complete list, see [Contextual variables available upon hand off](/power-virtual-agents/advanced-hand-off#contextual-variables-available-upon-hand-off)

### Known limitations

| Description     | Limitation     |
|-----------------|----------------|
| **Greeting topic context**  | The greeting topic for Power Virtual Agents doesn't have Omnichannel for Customer Service context available.  |
| **Adaptive cards:** An adaptive card is a customizable card that can contain any combination of text, speech, images, buttons, and input fields.|<ul><li>	Power Virtual Agents supports adaptive cards for CSAT surveys and they will display text only. For more information, see the [Channel experience reference table](https://docs.microsoft.com/power-virtual-agents/publication-fundamentals-publish-channels#channel-experience-reference-table). </li><li> You can build an adaptive card by adding a skill through Power Virtual Agents. For more information, see [Use Microsoft Bot Framework Skills in Power Virtual Agents](https://docs.microsoft.com/power-virtual-agents/advanced-use-skills). </li><li> Adaptive card styling is not supported.</li></ul> |
| **Single sign-on (SSO):** Chatbots can sign the user in if they're in to the page where the bot is deployed. | SSO is not supported. |
| **Typing:** A bot receives a typing activity to indicate that the user is typing a response. A bot may send a typing activity to indicate to the user that it is working to fulfill a request or compile a response. | Typing indicators will not appear. |
| **Suggested actions:** Suggested actions enable your bot to present buttons that the user can tap to provide input. Suggested actions appear close to the composer and enhance user experience. They enable the user to answer a question or make a selection with a tap of a button, rather than having to type a response with a keyboard. | <ul><li>It cannot be displayed vertically.</li><li> Is not supported in the Microsoft Teams channel.</li></ul> |
| **Format bot messages:** You can set the optional TextFormat property to control how your message's text content is rendered. | <ul><li> Power Virtual Agents does not support markdown with images and text. </li> <li>When Power Virtual Agents sends markdown text, there is extra space between lines. </li><li>Carousel layout is not supported.</li></ul> |
| **File attachments:** After file attachments are enabled in Omnichannel for Customer Service, customers can send file attachments. | Power Virtual Agents cannot operate on Omnichannel for Customer Service file attachments. |
|||

## Enable a bot to end conversations

A Power Virtual Agents bot can choose to end conversations if it determines that the customer query has been solved or the when the customer has been inactive for a period of time. The bot can choose to end conversations after a time period of 30 minutes.


## Privacy notice

You understand that your data may be transmitted and shared with external systems and that your data may flow outside of your organization's compliance boundary (even if your organization is in a Government Cloud environment). For example, your messages will be shared with the bot which could be interacting with a third-party system based on the integration done by you. For more information on how we process your data, see [Microsoft Privacy Statement](https://privacy.microsoft.com/privacystatement).

### Troubleshoot issues for bots

[How to end a bot conversation in Omnichannel for Customer Service](troubleshoot-omnichannel-customer-service.md#pvaendconv) 

### Videos

[Power Virtual Agents integration with Omnichannel for Customer Service](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=2114716)

To view more videos on Omnichannel for Customer Service, see [Videos](videos.md).

### See also

[Understand and create work streams](work-streams-introduction.md)  
[Work with queues in Omnichannel for Customer Service](queues-omnichannel.md)  
[Create and manage routing rules](routing-rules.md)  
[Add a chat widget](add-chat-widget.md)  
[Enable a bot to escalate and end conversation](bot-escalate-end-conversation.md)  
[Create and edit topics in Power Virtual Agents bot](https://docs.microsoft.com/power-virtual-agents/authoring-create-edit-topics)  

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
