ce/customer-service/customize-chat-widget.md, before:

---
title: "Customize a chat widget | Microsoft Docs"
description: "Read how you can customize chat widgets by using data tags on the chat widget script"
author: mh-jaya
ms.author: v-jmh
manager: shujoshi
ms.date: 04/09/2021
ms.topic: reference
ms.service: dynamics-365-customerservice
---
# Customize a chat widget

Chat widgets can be customized by using data tags on the chat widget script.

|Attribute name|Description|Example|
|----|-----|-----|
|`data-hide-chat-button`| When the HTML snippet is added to a website, a widget shows up on that website by default. In some cases, you might want to implement the chat widget by using your own button. Use this attribute to hide the chat button. | Add this tag to the chat widget script that you got from the Omnichannel Administration app, as shown in the following example.<br /><br />`<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-hide-chat-button="true"></script>`|
|`data-enable-telemetry`| By default, telemetry data collection is turned on for all widgets. Set the value of this data tag to `false` if you want to disable telemetry data collection. More information: [Live chat widget telemetry](live-chat-telemetry.md)|Add this tag to the chat widget script that you got from the Omnichannel Administration page, as shown in the following example.<br /><br />`<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-enable-telemetry="false"></script>` |
|`data-render-mobile`| Open the chat widget in mobile mode. The chat widget doesn't have a header when used on a mobile device. More information: [Render a live chat widget on the mobile app](render-live-chat-widget-mobile.md)|Add this tag to the chat widget script, as shown in the following example. <br /><br>`<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-render-mobile="true" ></script>` |
|`data-color-override`| Use this data tag to override the default chat widget theme color. This override will take priority over any color theme settings on the Omnichannel Administration page.|Add this tag to the chat widget script that you got from the Omnichannel Administration page. In the following example script, the chat widget theme color is changed to blue.<br /><br>`<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-color-override="#0000FF"></script>` |
|`data-font-family-override`| Use this data tag to override the default chat widget font family.<br />If your website has a custom font uploaded, that can also be used to override the default font family.|Add this tag to the chat widget script that you got from the Omnichannel Administration page. In the following example script, the chat widget font family is set to Roboto as a first priority, otherwise the font family is Segoe UI.<br />`<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-font-family-override="Roboto; Segoe UI"></script>` |
|`data-open-in-window`| This data tag accepts either the value `true` or `false`. When `true`, the chat widget will open in a new browser window when selected. By default, the chat widget will open in the same browser window. | `<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-open-in-window="true"></script>`|
|`data-suggested-action-layout`| This data tag displays the suggested actions vertically. By default, the suggested actions are displayed horizontally. To display the suggested actions vertically, set the value of this data tag as `stacked`. | Add this tag to the chat widget script that you got from the Omnichannel Administration page, as shown in the following example.<br /><br /> `<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-suggested-action-layout="stacked"></script>`|


### See also

[Start chat proactively](start-proactive-chat.md)<br />
[Live chat SDK JavaScript API reference](developer/omnichannel-reference.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Adding the missed out update that was removed during merge conflict

ce/customer-service/customize-chat-widget.md, after:

---
title: "Customize a chat widget | Microsoft Docs"
description: "Read how you can customize chat widgets by using data tags on the chat widget script"
author: mh-jaya
ms.author: v-jmh
manager: shujoshi
ms.date: 04/09/2021
ms.topic: reference
ms.service: dynamics-365-customerservice
---
# Customize a chat widget

Chat widgets can be customized by using data tags on the chat widget script.

|Attribute name|Description|Example|
|----|-----|-----|
|`data-hide-chat-button`| When the HTML snippet is added to a website, a widget shows up on that website by default. In some cases, you might want to implement the chat widget by using your own button. Use this attribute to hide the chat button. | Add this tag to the chat widget script that you got from the Omnichannel Administration app, as shown in the following example.<br /><br />`<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-hide-chat-button="true"></script>`|
|`data-enable-telemetry`| By default, telemetry data collection is turned on for all widgets. Set the value of this data tag to `false` if you want to disable telemetry data collection. More information: [Live chat widget telemetry](live-chat-telemetry.md)|Add this tag to the chat widget script that you got from the Omnichannel Administration page, as shown in the following example.<br /><br />`<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-enable-telemetry="false"></script>` |
|`data-render-mobile`| Open the chat widget in mobile mode. The chat widget doesn't have a header when used on a mobile device. More information: [Render a live chat widget on the mobile app](render-live-chat-widget-mobile.md)|Add this tag to the chat widget script, as shown in the following example. <br /><br>`<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-render-mobile="true" ></script>` |
|`data-color-override`| Use this data tag to override the default chat widget theme color. This override will take priority over any color theme settings on the Omnichannel Administration page.|Add this tag to the chat widget script that you got from the Omnichannel Administration page. In the following example script, the chat widget theme color is changed to blue.<br /><br>`<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-color-override="#0000FF"></script>` |
|`data-font-family-override`| Use this data tag to override the default chat widget font family.<br />If your website has a custom font uploaded, that can also be used to override the default font family.|Add this tag to the chat widget script that you got from the Omnichannel Administration page. In the following example script, the chat widget font family is set to Roboto as a first priority, otherwise the font family is Segoe UI.<br />`<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-font-family-override="Roboto; Segoe UI"></script>` |
|`data-open-in-window`| This data tag accepts either the value `true` or `false`. When `true`, the chat widget will open in a new browser window when selected. By default, the chat widget will open in the same browser window. | `<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-open-in-window="true"></script>`|
|`data-suggested-action-layout`| This data tag displays the suggested actions vertically. By default, the suggested actions are displayed horizontally. To display the suggested actions vertically, set the value of this data tag as `stacked`. | Add this tag to the chat widget script that you got from the Omnichannel Administration page, as shown in the following example.<br /><br /> `<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-suggested-action-layout="stacked"></script>`|
|`data-enable-lcw-autofill`| Use this data tag to enable the chat widget to autofill the browser window in embedded mode. | Add this tag to the chat widget script that you got from the Omnichannel Administration page as shown in the following example. <br />`<script id="Microsoft_Omnichannel_LCWidget" src="<valid-src>" data-app-id="<valid-app-id>" data-org-id="<valid-org-id>" data-org-url="<valid-org-url>" data-enable-lcw-autofill="true"></script>`|
||||

### See also

[Start chat proactively](start-proactive-chat.md)<br />
[Live chat SDK JavaScript API reference](developer/omnichannel-reference.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
