ce/customer-service/users-user-profiles.md, before:

---
title: Create and manage users and user profiles | MicrosoftDocs
description: Know how to create and manage users and user profiles in the Omnichannel for Customer Service
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
manager: shujoshi
ms.date: 04/09/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.service: dynamics-365-customerservice
---

# Manage users in Omnichannel for Customer Service

[!INCLUDE[cc-use-with-omnichannel](../includes/cc-use-with-omnichannel.md)]

All users who are assigned the **Omnichannel administrator**, **Omnichannel supervisor**, or **Omnichannel agent** security role are enabled to use Omnichannel for Customer Service.

For more information on how to create users and assign security roles, see [Assign roles and enable users for Omnichannel for Customer Service](add-users-assign-roles.md).

## Manage a user in Omnichannel for Customer Service

1. In the site map of Omnichannel admin center, select **Users** under **General settings**. If you're using the Omnichannel Administration app, select **Users** under **Queues & Users**.

2. In the **Omnichannel Users** view, double-click a user in the list.

3. Select the **Omnichannel** tab.

4. Specify the following in the user page.

    | Section | Field | Description | Example value |
    |---------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
    | User Details | Capacity | Allocate a value that indicates the capacity of the agent. For information: [Capacity](#capacity). | 100 |
    | User Details | Default Presence | Assign a default presence status for agent. This is the status that the agent is logged in with, in the Omnichannel for Customer Service app. |


5. Select **New Bookable Resource** under the **Skills Configuration** section. The **New Bookable Resource** page appears.

6. Specify the name of agent in the **Name** field.

7. Select **Save**.

> [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
> ![Default presence](media/oc-user-omni-tab.png)

### Capacity

Capacity is the arbitrary scale that you choose and set for each of the work streams corresponding to the channels. The capacity assigned to the agent must be a multiplier of the capacity unit that you have defined for the associated work stream. Check the capacity unit defined for the work streams to determine the value that must be assigned to your agents. For example, if the capacity unit is 1 for a workstream and you want an agent to be able to take up to 3 conversations simultaneously, the capacity that you assign to the agent should be 3 units. Similarly, if your capacity unit is 5 for the work stream and you want the agent to be able to take up to 3 conversations simultaneously, you should assign 15 units as the capacity for the agent.

### See also

[Work with queues in Omnichannel for Customer Service](queues-omnichannel.md)  
[Configure and manage presence status](presence-custom-presence.md)  


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]

Commit message:

Added prerequisite for bookable resource

ce/customer-service/users-user-profiles.md, after:

---
title: Create and manage users and user profiles | MicrosoftDocs
description: Know how to create and manage users and user profiles in the Omnichannel for Customer Service
author: neeranelli
ms.author: nenellim
manager: shujoshi
ms.date: 04/09/2021
ms.topic: article
ms.service: dynamics-365-customerservice
---

# Manage users in Omnichannel for Customer Service

[!INCLUDE[cc-use-with-omnichannel](../includes/cc-use-with-omnichannel.md)]

All users who are assigned the **Omnichannel administrator**, **Omnichannel supervisor**, or **Omnichannel agent** security role are enabled to use Omnichannel for Customer Service.

For more information on how to create users and assign security roles, see [Assign roles and enable users for Omnichannel for Customer Service](add-users-assign-roles.md).

## Prerequisite

To add the work hour for a bookable resource, universal resource scheduling must be available in your organization. Universal resource scheduling is available with Field Service, Project Service, or Service Scheduling.

## Manage a user in Omnichannel for Customer Service

1. In the site map of Omnichannel admin center, select **Users** under **General settings**. If you're using the Omnichannel Administration app, select **Users** under **Queues & Users**.

2. In the **Omnichannel Users** view, double-click a user in the list.

3. Select the **Omnichannel** tab.

4. Specify the following in the user page.

    | Section | Field | Description | Example value |
    |---------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
    | User Details | Capacity | Allocate a value that indicates the capacity of the agent. For information: [Capacity](#capacity). | 100 |
    | User Details | Default Presence | Assign a default presence status for agent. This is the status that the agent is logged in with, in the Omnichannel for Customer Service app. |


5. Select **New Bookable Resource** under the **Skills Configuration** section. The **New Bookable Resource** page appears.

6. Specify the name of agent in the **Name** field.

7. Select **Save**.

> [!div class=mx-imgBorder]
> ![Default presence](media/oc-user-omni-tab.png)

### Capacity

Capacity is the arbitrary scale that you choose and set for each of the work streams corresponding to the channels. The capacity assigned to the agent must be a multiplier of the capacity unit that you have defined for the associated work stream. Check the capacity unit defined for the work streams to determine the value that must be assigned to your agents. For example, if the capacity unit is 1 for a workstream and you want an agent to be able to take up to 3 conversations simultaneously, the capacity that you assign to the agent should be 3 units. Similarly, if your capacity unit is 5 for the work stream and you want the agent to be able to take up to 3 conversations simultaneously, you should assign 15 units as the capacity for the agent.

### See also

[Work with queues in Omnichannel for Customer Service](queues-omnichannel.md)  
[Configure and manage presence status](presence-custom-presence.md)  


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../includes/footer-banner.md)]
