---
title: "Test and troubleshoot reports (Dynamics 365 Customer Engagement (on-premises)) | MicrosoftDocs"
ms.custom: 
ms.date: 09/30/2017
ms.reviewer: 
ms.service: crm-online
ms.suite: 
ms.tgt_pltfrm: 
ms.topic: article
applies_to: 
  - Dynamics 365 for Customer Engagement (online)
ms.assetid: c9f06327-3b52-4850-a415-d5f59b9e29aa
caps.latest.revision: 12
author: Mattp123
ms.author: matp
manager: amyla
tags: 
  - MigrationHO
search.audienceType: 
  - customizer

---
# Test and troubleshoot reports

After you have created a report, test it to see if it produces the results that you want.  
  
## Test a report  
  
1. Test the report in [!INCLUDE[pn_Visual_Studio](../includes/pn-visual-studio.md)] within the **Preview** tab.  
  
2. If any errors are reported, correct the cause of the errors, and then run the test again.  
  
3. When the report works correctly, publish the report to the report server. To do this, in Customer Engagement (on-premises), go to **Sales** > **Reports**. Click **New**, and then fill out the requested information.  
  
4. Run the published report to verify the report's operation.  
  
## Suggestions for testing a report  
 The following list of suggestions is provided as a guide for testing your reports:  
  
- Verify that report filters are specified for the correct entities. After uploading the report, open it and check whether any entities designated for **Advanced Find** filtering should be exposed for report pre-filtering.  
  
- If the report queries a custom entity, make sure that the entity can be correctly filtered. and that the report returns data based on user roles with user-level security on entities, custom security roles, and other roles.  
  
- Some reports are context sensitive and can be run against selected records in a list. For those types of reports, verify that the report can be run against system views, custom system views, user queries, and selected records.  
  
- Verify that you can take snapshots of the report through the Scheduling Wizard in Customer Engagement (on-premises).  
  
- Verify that you can save the report as a PDF file. Reports frequently print better with PDF formatting.  
  
- Verify that detailed sub-reports are hidden when you publish the report, so they’re not run directly by users.  
  
## Report drill-through fails in Visual Studio Report Viewer  
 Some parameters in the reports that are generated by the Report Wizard are marked internal (read-only). Therefore, when you upload the reports into [!INCLUDE[pn_Visual_Studio_short](../includes/pn-visual-studio-short.md)], and try to drill through, the [!INCLUDE[pn_Visual_Studio_short](../includes/pn-visual-studio-short.md)] Report Viewer doesn’t display the reports. To correct this, use [!INCLUDE[pn_Visual_Studio_short](../includes/pn-visual-studio-short.md)] Report Designer to change the parameters from internal to hidden. Clear the **Internal** check box, and make sure that the **Hidden** check box is selected for each of the following parameters:  
  
- `CRM_Drillthrough`  
  
- `CRM_DrillthroughFilterBy`  
  
- `CRM_FilterText`  
  
- `CRM_URL`  
  
  The parameters that are prefixed with `CRM_Filtered`, such as `CRM_FilteredAccount` or `CRM_FilteredContact`, also have to be marked as hidden and not internal.  
  
> [!NOTE]
>  Your report may not contain all the parameters listed here.  
  
### See also  
 [Reporting and Analytics Guide](../analytics/reporting-analytics-with-dynamics-365.md)   
 [Publish Reports](../analytics/publish-reports.md)   
 [Use Parameters in Reports](../analytics/use-parameters-in-reports.md)   
 [Create Custom Reports Using SQL Server Data Tools](../analytics/create-a-new-report-using-sql-server-data-tools.md)


[!INCLUDE[footer-include](../../../includes/footer-banner.md)]