> [!IMPORTANT]
> Many countries/regions (including the European Union) require that you obtain consent before setting a cookie on a resident's machine. It is your organization's responsibility to be aware of, and conform to, all relevant laws and regulations in the markets where you operate, including when it comes to obtaining consent to set cookies. For example, you can read more about the EU regulations at [ec.europa.eu/ipg/basics/legal/cookies/](http://ec.europa.eu/ipg/basics/legal/cookies/). [!INCLUDE[pn-marketing-business-app-module-name](../includes/pn-marketing-business-app-module-name.md)] uses cookies in the following ways:
> - Marketing pages created and hosted by Dynamics 365 for Marketing use cookies to enable the pre-fill feature for known contacts, and to log when a known or anonymous contact opens a marketing page. Dynamics 365 marketing pages and page templates do not currently include a cookie-consent feature, so you must add this yourself to any relevant pages. One way to do this is by adding JavaScript to the <head> section of your pages using the HTML editor of the page designer. You could develop your own JavaScript for this, or use one of the many free or licensed solutions already available. You could also use the built-in privacy statement for marketing pages to announce your use of cookies, though this might not be sufficient in all jurisdictions because that feature won't stop the server from setting the cookie&mdash;it can just inform visitors that they are being used (for more information about this feature, see [Configure marketing pages](../marketing/marketing-settings.md#config-mkt-pages)). [!INCLUDE[proc-more-information](../includes/proc-more-information.md)] [Create and deploy marketing pages](../marketing/create-deploy-marketing-pages.md)
> - The websites feature uses cookies to log visits to any web page where you place the tracking script. This cookie works together with the marketing-pages feature by matching the visitor IDs to landing-page submissions to identify contacts. If your website already uses cookies and includes a consent feature, then that probably also covers the Dynamics 365 for Marketing website script. However, if you don't already have cookie consent built into your website, you must add it before adding the websites script to your pages if you market to the residents of relevant countries/regions. [!INCLUDE[proc-more-information](../includes/proc-more-information.md)] [Register contacts' engagement with your internet marketing initiatives](../marketing/register-engagement.md)
> - The event portal uses a session cookie to enable contacts to sign in and register for events. [!INCLUDE[proc-more-information](../includes/proc-more-information.md)] [Set up the event portal](../marketing/set-up-event-portal.md)
> 
> [!INCLUDE[proc-more-information](../includes/proc-more-information.md)] [How Dynamics 365 for Marketing uses cookies](../marketing/cookies.md)